There are many types and traditions of anarchism, not all of which are mutually exclusive.
Anarchists hold different views as to the mutualism, agorism, or anarcho-capitalism.
According to the "Oxford Companion to Philosophy", "there is no single defining position that all anarchists hold, beyond their rejection of compulsory government, and those considered anarchists at best share a certain family resemblance".
Anarchist schools of thought differ fundamentally, supporting anything from extreme individualism to complete collectivism.
Opposition to state and hierarchy had a long history prior to the anarchists in nineteenth century Europe.
Some claim anarchist themes can be found in the works of Lao Tzu.
Diogenes of Sinope and the Cynics and their contemporary, Zeno of Citium, the founder of Stoicism, also introduced similar topics.
Mutualism began in 19th century English and French labor movements, then took an anarchist form associated with Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in France and others in the US.
Some see mutualism as an ideology falling between individualist and collectivist anarchism.
It merely demands that non-invasive men shall not be made the victims of such force.
Anarchism is not the reign of love, but the reign of justice.
The status of anarchist communism within anarchism is disputed, because it is seen by individualist anarchists and anarcho-capitalists as incompatible with Egoist in nature.
Anarcho-communist Emma Goldman was influenced by both Max Stirner and Kropotkin and blended their philosophies together in her own.
In the early twentieth century anarcho-syndicalism arose as a distinct school of thought within anarchism.
Anarcho-syndicalism and other branches of anarchism are not mutually exclusive: anarcho-syndicalists often subscribe to communist or collectivist anarchism.
Its advocates propose labour organization as a means to create the foundations of a non-hierarchical anarchist society within the current system and bring about social revolution.
According to anarcho-communist economic system.
Anarcho-capitalism has been advocated on both communist anarchists [having] been particularly keen to remove individualists anarchists such as Murray Rothbard from literary accounts of anarchism.
Anarchism as a social movement has regularly endured fluctuations in popularity.
Its classical period, which scholars demarcate as from 1860 to 1939, is associated with the working-class movements of the nineteenth century and the Spanish Civil War-era struggles against fascism.
In Europe, harsh reaction followed the collectivists worked with the Marxists to push the First International in a more revolutionary socialist direction.
The Spanish Workers Federation in 1881 was the first major anarcho-syndicalist movement; anarchist trade union federations were of special importance in Spain.
Anarchists participated alongside the civil war against Whites and then the Bolsheviks as part of the Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine led by Nestor Makhno, who attempted to establish an anarchist society in the region for a number of months.
Expelled American anarchists Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman were amongst those agitating in response to Bolshevik policy and the suppression of the Kronstadt uprising, before they left Russia.
Both wrote accounts of their experiences in Russia, criticizing the amount of control the Bolsheviks exercised.
For them, Bakunin's predictions about the consequences of Marxist rule had proved all too true.
The victory of the Bolsheviks in the October Revolution and the resulting Russian Civil War did serious damage to anarchist movements internationally.
Many workers and activists saw Bolshevik success as setting an example; Communist International.
In the 1920s and 1930s, the rise of Italian anarchists played a key role in the anti-fascist organisation "Arditi del Popolo", which was strongest in areas with anarchist traditions and marked up numerous successful victories, including repelling Blackshirts in the anarchist stronghold of Parma in August 1922.
In France, where the far-right leagues came close to insurrection in the February 1934 riots, anarchists divided over a 'United Front' policy.
In Spain, the dissident Marxists and anarchists.
Since the late 1970s anarchists have been involved in opposing the rise of anti-fascist groups alongside members of the Marxist left.
In the interest of restricting article length, please limit this section to two or three short paragraphs and add any substantial information to the main Issues in anarchism article.
Anarchism is a philosophy which embodies many diverse and heterogeneous attitudes, tendencies and schools of thought; as such, disagreement over questions of values, ideology and tactics is common.
The compatibility of enlightened self-interest or any number of alternative ethical doctrines.
Phenomena such as the environment have changed significantly since the modern origin of the philosophy in the eighteenth century.
On a tactical level, while anti-state cryptography to bring about an anarchist society.
The diversity in anarchism has led to widely different use of identical terms among different anarchist traditions, which has led to many definitional concerns in anarchist theory.
The external link portion of this article regularly grows far beyond manageable size.
Please only list an outside link if it applies to anarchism in general and is somewhat noteworthy.
Please follow the Wikipedia style guidelines for editing medical articles WP:MEDMOS.
Caption = Obsessively stacking or lining up objects may indicate autism.
This set of signs distinguishes autism from milder autism spectrum disorders (ASD) such as Asperger syndrome.
Autism is highly scientific evidence.
Most recent reviews estimate a prevalence of one to two cases per 1,000 people for autism, and about six per 1,000 for ASD, with ASD averaging a 4.3:1 male-to-female ratio.
The number of people known to have autism has increased dramatically since the 1980s, at least partly due to changes in diagnostic practice; the question of whether actual prevalence has increased is unresolved.
Autism affects many parts of the brain; how this occurs is poorly understood.
Parents usually notice signs in the first two years of their child's life.
Early intervention may help children gain self-care and social skills, although few of these interventions are supported by scientific studies.
There is no cure.
With severe autism, independent living is unlikely; with milder autism, there are some success stories for adults, and an autistic culture has developed, with some seeking a cure and others believing that autism is a condition rather than a disorder.
Autism is a remission or relapse.
Impairments result from maturation-related changes in various systems of the brain.
Autism is one of the five pervasive developmental disorders (PDD), which are characterized by widespread abnormalities of social interactions and communication, and severely restricted interests and highly repetitive behavior.
Of the other four PDD forms, traits, such as avoiding eye contact.
Some studies have reported diagnoses of autism in children due to a loss of language or social skills, as opposed to a failure to make progress.
Several terms are used for this phenomenon, including regressive autism, setback autism, and developmental stagnation.
The validity of this distinction remains controversial; it is possible that regressive autism is a specific subtype.
Autism is distinguished by a pattern of symptoms rather than one single symptom.
The main characteristics are impairments in social interaction, impairments in communication, restricted interests and repetitive behavior.
Other aspects, such as atypical eating, are also common but are not essential for diagnosis.
Individual symptoms of autism occur in the general population and appear not to associate highly, without a sharp line separating pathological severity from common traits.
Social impairments become apparent early in childhood and continue through adulthood.
Autistic infants show less attention to social stimuli, smile and look at others less often, and respond less to their own name.
Autistic toddlers have more striking social deviance; for example, they have less attachment security than usual, although this feature disappears in children with higher mental development or less severe ASD.
Older children and adults with ASD perform worse on tests of face and emotion recognition.
Contrary to common belief, autistic children do not prefer to be alone.
Making and maintaining friendships often proves to be difficult for those with autism.
For them, the quality of friendships, not the number of friends, predicts how lonely they are.
There are many anecdotal reports, but few systematic studies, of aggression and violence in individuals with ASD.
The limited data suggest that in children with mental retardation, autism is associated with aggression, destruction of property, and tantrums.
About a third to a half of individuals with autism do not develop enough natural speech to meet their daily communication needs.
Differences in communication may be present from the first year of life, and may include delayed onset of reverse pronouns.
Autistic children may have difficulty with imaginative play and with developing symbols into language.
They are more likely to have problems understanding pointing; for example, they may look at a pointing hand instead of the pointed-at object.
Autistic individuals display many forms of repetitive or restricted behavior, which the Repetitive Behavior Scale-Revised (RBS-R) categorizes as follows.
No single repetitive behavior seems to be specific to autism, but only autism appears to have an elevated pattern of occurrence and severity of these behaviors.
Autistic individuals may have symptoms that are independent of the diagnosis, but that can affect the individual or the family.
A small fraction of individuals with ASD show unusual abilities, ranging from splinter skills such as the memorization of trivia to the extraordinarily rare talents of prodigious autistic savants.
Unusual responses to tactile perception while autistic adults did not.
The same two studies also found that autistic individuals had more problems with complex memory and reasoning tasks such as Twenty Questions; these problems were somewhat more marked among adults.
Several studies have reported associated motor problems that include poor motor planning, and toe walking; ASD is not associated with severe motor disturbances.
Atypical eating behavior occurs in about three-quarters of children with ASD, to the extent that it was formerly a diagnostic indicator.
Selectivity is the most common problem, although eating rituals and food refusal also occur; this does not appear to result in malnutrition.
Although some children with autism also have gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, there is a lack of published rigorous data to support the theory that autistic children have more or different GI symptoms than usual; studies report conflicting results, and the relationship between GI problems and ASD is unclear.
Parents of children with ASD have higher levels of stress.
Siblings of children with ASD report greater admiration of and less conflict with the affected sibling; siblings of individuals with ASD have greater risk of negative well-being and poorer sibling relationships as adults.
Although many genetic and environmental causes of autism have been proposed, its theory of causation is still incomplete.
Some researchers argue this is because autism is not a single disorder, but rather a triad of core aspects (social impairment, communication difficulties, and repetitive behaviors) that have distinct causes but often co-occur.
Genetic factors are the most significant cause for autism spectrum disorders.
Despite extensive investigation, how autism occurs is not well understood.
Its mechanism can be divided into two areas: the pathophysiology of brain structures and processes associated with autism, and the neuropsychological linkages between brain structures and behaviors.
The behaviors appear to have multiple pathophysiologies.
Several neurotransmitter abnormalities have been detected in autism, notably increased blood levels of serotonin.
Whether these lead to structural or behavioral abnormalities is unclear.
Also, some inborn errors of metabolism are associated with autism but probably account for less than 5% of cases.
The underconnectivity theory of autism hypothesizes that autism is marked by underfunctioning high-level neural connections and synchronization, along with an excess of low-level processes.
Evidence for this theory has been found in association cortex.
Two major categories of cognitive theories have been proposed about the links between autistic brains and behavior.
Neither category is satisfactory on its own; social cognition theories poorly address autism's rigid and repetitive behaviors, while the nonsocial theories have difficulty explaining social impairment and communication difficulties.
A combined theory based on multiple deficits may prove to be more useful.
Parents are usually the first to notice their child's unusual behaviors.
The screened for ASD at the 18- and 24-month well-child doctor visits, using autism-specific formal screening tests.
In contrast, the UK National Screening Committee recommends against screening for ASD in the general population, because screening tools have not been fully validated and interventions lack sufficient evidence for effectiveness.
Genetic screening for autism is generally still impractical.
As genetic tests are developed several ethical, legal, and social issues will emerge.
Commercial availability of tests may precede adequate understanding of how to use test results, given the complexity of autism's genetics.
Several diagnostic instruments are available.
Two are commonly used in autism research: the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) is a semistructured parent interview, and the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) uses observation and interaction with the child.
The Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) is used widely in clinical environments to assess severity of autism based on observation of children.
A pediatrician commonly performs a preliminary investigation by taking developmental history and physically examining the child.
If warranted, diagnosis and evaluations are conducted with help from ASD specialists, observing and assessing cognitive, communication, family, and other factors using standardized tools, and taking into account any associated medical conditions.
A differential diagnosis for ASD at this stage might also consider mental retardation, hearing impairment, and a specific language impairment such as Landau-Kleffner syndrome.
In the UK the National Autism Plan for Children recommends at most 30 weeks from first concern to completed diagnosis and assessment, though few cases are handled that quickly in practice.
Underdiagnosis and overdiagnosis are problems in marginal cases, and much of the recent increase in the number of reported ASD cases is likely due to changes in diagnostic practices.
The increasing popularity of drug treatment options and the expansion of benefits has given providers incentives to diagnose ASD, resulting in some overdiagnosis of children with uncertain symptoms.
Conversely, the cost of screening and diagnosis and the challenge of obtaining payment can inhibit or delay diagnosis.
It is particularly hard to diagnose autism among the visually impaired, partly because some of its diagnostic criteria depend on vision, and partly because autistic symptoms overlap with those of common blindness syndromes.
The symptoms of autism and ASD begin early in childhood but are occasionally missed.
Adults may seek retrospective diagnoses to help them or their friends and family understand themselves, to help their employers make adjustments, or in some locations to claim disability living allowances or other benefits.
Treatment is expensive; indirect costs are more so.
The risk of autism is associated with several prenatal and hypoxia during childbirth.
Autism's incidence rate, despite its advantages for assessing risk, is less useful in autism epidemiology, as the disorder starts long before it is diagnosed, and the gap between initiation and diagnosis is influenced by many factors unrelated to risk.
Attention is focused mostly on whether prevalence is increasing with time.
Links that have not been verified WILL BE DELETED.
The word is derived from Latin "albedo" "whiteness", in turn from "albus" "white".
The albedo is an important concept in climatology and astronomy.
In climatology it is sometimes expressed as a percentage.
Its value depends on the frequency of radiation considered: unqualified, it usually refers to some appropriate average across the spectrum of visible light.
In general, the albedo depends on the direction and directional distribution of incoming radiation.
Exceptions are Lambertian surfaces, which scatter radiation in all directions in a cosine function, so their albedo does not depend on the incoming distribution.
In realistic cases, a bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) is required to characterise the scattering properties of a surface accurately, although albedos are a very useful first approximation.
Albedos of typical materials in visible light range from up to 90% for fresh snow, to about 4% for charcoal, one of the darkest substances.
Deeply shadowed cavities can achieve an effective albedo approaching the zero of a blackbody.
When seen from a distance, the ocean surface has a low albedo, as do most forests, while desert areas have some of the highest albedos among landforms.
Most land areas are in an albedo range of .1 to .4.
The average albedo of the Earth is about 30%.
This is far higher than for the ocean primarily because of the contribution of clouds.
Human activities have changed the albedo (via forest clearance and farming, for example) of various areas around the globe.
However, quantification of this effect is difficult on the global scale.
The classic example of albedo effect is the snow-temperature feedback.
If a snow covered area warms and the snow melts, the albedo decreases, more sunlight is absorbed, and the temperature tends to increase.
The converse is true: if snow forms, a cooling cycle happens.
The intensity of the albedo effect depends on the size of the change in albedo and the amount of insolation; for this reason it can be potentially very large in the tropics.
The Earth's surface albedo is regularly estimated via Aqua satellites.
As the total amount of reflected radiation cannot be directly measured by satellite, a mathematical model of the BRDF is used to translate a sample set of satellite reflectance measurements into estimates of directional-hemispherical reflectance and bi-hemispherical reflectance.
The albedo of photometry.
For small and far objects that cannot be resolved by telescopes, much of what we know comes from the study of their albedos.
For example, the absolute albedo can indicate the surface ice content of outer solar system objects, the variation of albedo with phase angle gives information about regolith properties, while unusually high radar albedo is indicative of high metallic content in asteroids.
The overall albedo of the Moon is around 12%, but it is strongly directional and non-Lambertian, displaying also a strong opposition effect.
While such reflectance properties are different from those of any terrestrial terrains, they are typical of the regolith surfaces of airless solar system bodies.
Two common albedos that are used in astronomy are the geometric albedo (measuring brightness when illumination comes from directly behind the observer) and the Bond albedo (measuring total proportion of electromagnetic energy reflected).
Their values can differ significantly, which is a common source of confusion.
In detailed studies, the directional reflectance properties of astronomical bodies are often expressed in terms of the five phase angle, including a characterisation of the opposition effect of regolith surfaces.
Although the albedo-temperature effect is most famous in colder regions of Earth, because more snow falls there, it is actually much stronger in tropical regions because in the tropics there is consistently more sunlight.
Albedo works on a smaller scale, too.
People who wear dark clothes in the summertime put themselves at a greater risk of heatstroke than those who wear lighter color clothes.
Urban areas in particular have very unnatural values for albedo because of the many human-built structures which absorb light before the light can reach the surface.
In the northern part of the world, cities are relatively dark, and Walker has shown that their average albedo is about 7%, with only a slight increase during the summer.
In most tropical countries, cities average around 12%.
This is similar to the values found in northern suburban transitional zones.
Because trees tend to have a low albedo, removing forests would tend to increase albedo and thereby could produce localized climate cooling.
Cloud feedbacks further complicate the issue.
In seasonally snow-covered zones, winter albedos of treeless areas are 10% to 50% higher than nearby forested areas because snow does not cover the trees as readily.
Deciduous trees have an albedo value of about 0.15 to 0.18 while coniferous trees have a value of about 0.09 to 0.15.
The difference between deciduous and coniferous is because coniferous trees are darker in general and have cone-shape seeds.
The pattern of these seeds trap light energy more than deciduous trees.
Studies by the Hadley Centre have investigated the relative (generally warming) effect of albedo change and (cooling) effect of carbon sequestration on planting forests.
Snow albedos can be as high as 90%.
This is for the ideal example, however: fresh deep snow over a featureless landscape.
Over Antarctica they average a little more than 80%.
If a marginally snow-covered area warms, snow tends to melt, lowering the albedo, and hence leading to more snowmelt (the ice-albedo positive feedback).
This is the basis for predictions of enhanced warming in the polar and seasonally snow covered regions as a result of global warming.
Water reflects light much differently from typical terrestrial materials.
The reflectivity of a water surface is calculated using the Fresnel equations (see graph).
The glint of light off water is a commonplace effect of this.
Although the reflectivity of water is very low at high and medium angles of incident light, it increases tremendously at small angles of incident light such as occur on the illuminated side of the earth near the terminator (early morning, late afternoon and near the poles).
However, as mentioned above, waviness causes an appreciable reduction.
Since the light specularly reflected from water does not usually reach the viewer, water is usually considered to have a very low albedo in spite of its high reflectivity at low angles of incident light.
Note that White caps on waves look white (and have high albedo) because the water is foamed up (not smooth at the scale of the wavelength of light) so the Fresnel equations do not apply.
Clouds are another source of albedo that play into the global warming equation.
Different types of clouds have different albedo values, theoretically ranging from a minimum of near 0% to a maximum in the high 70s.
Earth is covered by clouds, which reflect more sunlight than land and water.
Albedo and climate in some areas are already affected by artificial clouds, such as those created by the contrails of heavy commercial airliner traffic.
A study following the burning of the Kuwaiti oil fields by Saddam Hussein showed that temperatures under the burning oil fires were as much as 10oC colder than temperatures several miles away under clear skies.
Another albedo-related effect on the climate is from black carbon particles.
Parts of Abu Dhabi were settled as far back as the 19th century the Dubai and Abu Dhabi branches parted ways.
Into the mid-20th century, the economy of Abu Dhabi continued to be sustained mainly by mud huts.
The growth of the cultured pearl industry in the first half of the twentieth century created hardship for residents of Abu Dhabi as pearls represented the largest export and main source of cash earnings.
In 1939, British, Sheikh Zayed became the new ruler.
With the announcement by the UK in 1968 that it would withdraw from the Gulf area by 1971, Sheikh Zayed became the main driving force behind the formation of the United Arab Emirates.
After the Emirates gained independence in 1971, oil wealth continued to flow to the area and traditional mud-brick huts were rapidly replaced with banks, boutiques and modern highrises.
The emirate of Abu Dhabi is located in the oil-rich and strategic United Arab Emirates and is an active member of the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC).
It borders with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (south) and the Sultanate of Oman (east).
The emirate borders the emirate of Dubai to its northeast.
In the north is the Persian Gulf.
Abu Dhabi city is on an island located less than a quarter-kilometer from the mainland and is joined to the mainland by the Maqta and Musaffah Bridges.
A third bridge, designed by Zaha Hadid, is currently under construction.
Bridges connecting to Reem Island and Saadiyat Island are also under construction.
Most of Abu Dhabi is located on the island itself, but it has many suburbs on the mainland for example: The Khalifa Cities, Between Two Bridges, Mussafah Residential and more.
The majority of the inhabitants of Abu Dhabi are expatriate workers from Bengali, and Urdu are widely spoken.
Apart from Hindi, the many Indian expatriates also contribute other South Asian languages to the cultural milieu, including Malayalam, widely spoken in Kerala.
The native-born population are Gulf Arabs who are part of a clan-based society.
The al-Nahyan family, part of the al-Falah branch of the Bani Yas clan, rules the emirate and has a central place in society.
As the wealthiest Emirate, Abu Dhabi is also considered the richest city in the world.
Each of Abu Dhabi's 420,000 citizens is worth $17 million (AED 62 million), and more than $1 trillion is invested worldwide in this city alone.
The weather is cooler from November to March.
This period also sees dense fog on some days.
The oasis city of Al Ain, about 150 km away, bordering Oman, regularly records the highest summer temperatures in the country, however the dry desert air and cooler evenings make it a traditional retreat from the intense summer heat and year round humidity of the capital city.
The city was planned in the 1970s for an estimated maximum population of 600,000.
In accordance with what was considered to be ideal urban planning at the time, the city has wide grid-pattern roads, and high-density tower blocks.
On the northerly end of the island, where the population density is highest, the main streets are lined with 20-story towers.
Inside this rectangle of towers is a normal grid pattern of roads with lower density buildings (2 story villas or 6 story low-rise buildings).
Abu Dhabi city is a modern city with broad boulevards, tall office and apartment buildings, and busy shops.
Principal thoroughfares are The Corniche, Airport Road, Sheikh Zayed Street, Hamdan Street and Khalifa Street.
Abu Dhabi city is known in the region for its greenery; the former desert strip today includes numerous parks and gardens.
Mail is delivered to post-office boxes only; there is no door-to-door delivery.
New developments on islands surrounding the city plan to increase the population of the city by up to 2,600,000.
Abu Dhabi is trying to position itself as the "Cultural hub" of the Middle East, taking this mantle from such neighboring cities as Beirut and Cairo.
It is home to a number of cultural institutions including the Cultural Foundation and the National Theater.
The Cultural Foundation is home to the UAE Public Library and Cultural Center.
Various cultural societies such as the Abu Dhabi Classical Music Society have a strong and visible following in the city.
Abu Dhabi is home to several international and local private schools and universities.
If he stated that there are facutal errors, you can not respond with "This is just a POV deletion as usual".
If LaszloWalrus can come up with more than just the typewriter error, then I say we take a hard look at letting the review stay.
I changed it back, indicating that she was, in fact, a Jew.
The way the article read before (Russian-born writer) one might be under the impression that she was of Russian blood.
But clearly, any researcher on this subject knows that she was Jewish and many of her friends were Jewish as well.
I added the 'jew factor' in because I did not want any misunderstandings in the article, and I think we should celebrate her diversity.
All of the entries here are cited and fairly reported, reasonable readers are aware that criticism is pov by definition.
I'm not sure you understand how the criticism section looks to an outsider.
Let's say I'm neutral.
Let's say I just read the book.
Then I come to Wikipedia to look for the criticisms.
Then I see: Reviewer X said it's like Mein Kampf.
Reviewer Y said people like to read the dirty parts.
Reviewer Z said a South Park episode joked about the length.
Reviewer Z1 said that a lot of people are like the jerks in the book.
That's an utterly illogical conclusion.
Rand might be on to something if you don't agree with the critics?
There are a lot of bad criticisms of the nazis, but they aren't on to something, and nobody is going to make that assumption about them.
Sorry, but I don't understand where you're coming from, because you aren't using logic to explain your opinion.
I'll play your game.
Had you read what I posted, you would have noticed that the claim was that the article induces the reader to think "if the best criticisms of the book only cover superficial issues, maybe no one has a substantive objection, and thus, Rand's at least right about something".
Yes, because I admit that the scholarly debates over the merit of AS is not my area of expertise and my time would be better spent working on articles on topics I'm already familiar with.
I won't debate that literature isn't your area of expertise, but that shouldn't hold you off from simple research.
Even if all you did was post a few links to reviews on this talk page, you'd still have put more effort into improving the criticism section than you have done with simply complaining about it.
It doesn't take a college degree to look up reviews.
You made mocking variants of my statements which were changed into personal attacks to make another strawman against me.
And if you have seen it before, then I shouldn't have to show you what it looks like; you would recognize it by now without asking me to prove it.
I see no substantiation for any of your claims whatsoever.
All I see is hand-waving about some mythical literary criticism (whic for some reason references modern business practices unlike any other literary criticism) that you haven't once substantiated despite being asked again and again.
That's not how we roll here.
Time's running out, and I'm going to need to see your sources soon.
I mean literary criticism in general.
It's pretty standard for one to compare a piece of literature to contemporary events, as the literature often reflects them in one way or another.
I shouldn't have to give you an example of standard criticism if you claim to have seen it already.
Objectivism, but for him to make ridiculous POV edits that eliminate any mention of Ayn Rand as a philosopher is simply outrageous.
Perhaps he should check sources such as Britannica that explicitly refer to her as a philosopher.
Do you have proof for this argument?
There have been studies that show that even Wikipedia is more reliable than Britannica, and we all know Wikipedia is still a work in progress.
That's a fact that you have yet to disprove.
Ok two more copperheads.
The thing with Brittanica is that if they get something wrong and remove it it stays removed.
I find it unlikely that in the course of Brittanica having been out there and peer reveiwed by people a lot more scholarly than you or I they could have maintained such an error for half a century.
I'm getting testy.
This is fine.
Philosopher is not necessarily a term of endearment.
This is just junk writing.
Let it go.
This is anachronistic.
According to her journals, this began as a literary scenario.
Nor did she refer to herself in those terms publicly at that time or previously.
The whole sentence has to be revised.
This is junk writing.
It's like totally not cool to like totally refer to her like politics as like extremely political.
Christianity, and deliberately avoid naming Christianity explicitly?
In fact, my recollection is that the only characters who are meant to be associated with anything specifically religious are linked to unnamed generic Asian thought.
And isn't it merely Rand's opinion that real-world Christianity is as she characterizes this unlabeled code (in a spirit of 'if the shoe fits')?
If you think it through, this is subtle POV.
I don't think you've been at this article long enough.
Being bold here gets you harassment from pro-Rand editors who are never stopped by the admins.
Being bold causes admins to blame you when another editor harasses you.
Being bold gets nothing done when biased editors outnumber you and are able to de facto nullify the NPOV rule.
This is a pretty hard thing to get done.
While the article should contain literary analysis, academia doesn't really care enough about Rand to analyze her work.
Thus, we don't really have anything to work with.
I'd assume it'd be the same way with L Ron Hubbard or any other author who scared away academia with cult psychobabble and lawsuit threats.
As someone who does a lot of work with an academic literary department, I don't really see any chance that Rand would get serious coverage by academia in the future.
Honestly, her work reads like pulp romance novels and leans very heavily into Mein Kampf/The Turner Diaries territory.
Stuff like that will at the very least slow academia's acceptance of her down, if not stop it from ever happening.
But of what use would it be to merely reference the literary sources and techniques without actually discussing them?
I've been intently following this article now for a year or so, trying to make out just exactly what forces are at work.
There's obviously two opposing camps.
Every so often, one camp or the other will come in and shift things around so that the article slants more this way or that.
Then there's wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Then someone else comes in and the whole process starts over again.
Ultimately I think that Wikipedia is not for the self-gratification of those writing the articles.
This for me would be the bare minimum I would expect to see in an authoritative source.
Lacking these few items, I just wouldn't trust it.
First of all, part of her appeal is that she is supposedly smart and superior to other philosophers because she is a great-and-talented ubermensch.
One of the reasons why so many people grow out of the Rand phase is that they learn what logical fallacies and proper citations are when they get to college, and thus are able to identify them in her arguments.
By pushing this, we are feeding the cult like we would if we called dianetics an alternative to psychiatry, or intelligent design as science.
Wikipedia, as usual, is being dishonest with this article and only further justifying the accusation of "obsessed Ayn Rand fan" that the media has given to Jimbo.
But wait -- Rand thought that about mainstream philosophers!
What to do!
Nevertheless, they tend to be judged by their best works, not their worst.
Something to consider.
It's not about bad or good philosophy; it's a matter of is or isn't.
Philosophy should be built on logic; Randism is not.
And I have yet to hear of a philosopher who's whole philosophy was built on a strawman and contained such a bad citation; even if they only made the former mistake, they'd be rejected by anyone with a decent education.
A decent education should include basic logic.
I know high school doesn't teach it, but a good college (the place where philosophy is usually taught) should include it in one of its required writing courses.
This is the most ridiculous argument I've ever seen in my life.
To claim that one is not a philosopher because of lack of formal education or research?
This is a joke, right?
By that definition, Aristotle or Socrates aren't philosophers.
Just passing through.
Some of the best critiques I've found of Rand (I am actually working on one myself so I've been knee deep in them) are written by philosophers attacking her philosophy.
I consider this to class her as a philosopher.
It doesn't make her right, actually, there are some really good arguments against her written by philosophers.
But when a political thinker is debated by politicians it affirms them as a politician and I think that the same applies here.
She additionally wrote a couple of books of philosophy (that are generally better argued than her fiction).
Especially as 90% of the non-scholarly refutations of Rand come down to people saying: 1.
Yeah but she cheated on her husband.
She was an extremely long winded author.
Business men cheat too.
The notion was that the motor took static electricity out of the air.
This makes Galt's motor as much a perpetual motion machine as one driven by a solar panel, or, perhaps more clearly, a motor that ran using lightning as a source of energy.
Although I doubt the principle described has any physical reality, the notion was not that it created power out of nothing the way a perpetual motion machine would.
Before I remove the part about the perpetual motion, does anybody see something I'm missing?
I have not made myself an account yet, but I will.
I assume that this is referring to the part that starts at the bottom of page 669.
Galt never actually shows Dagny the motor here.
Galt shows her the building where it is housed, but he does not allow Dagny in because she is still a scab.
There is the whole discussion about how the door will only let somebody who speaks Galt's oath pass, and Dagny does not speak the oath.
Galt never describes the motor.
In Part 3, Chapter 2, we find out Galt is giving lectures on physics (starting on page 709), and it seems clear that the physics of the motor is one of the topics, but neither Dagny nor the reader get to hear any of these lectures.
This is too much detail for an encyclopedia article, though.
The motor is mentioned; we explain what it is and where Dagny first finds it.
I think it makes sense to get in the fact that a working version eventually shows up.
I am not sure I agree, but I have read only The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged, so my larger context on Ayn Rand is going to be weak.
It seems to me that while the characters are described as physically attractive in both books, the description tends to center on either what the person was feeling or what they were doing.
I think that her concept of beauty is the 'eye of the beholder' type.
That is her writing assumes that the protagonists will find each other attractive but not necissarilly any other characters.
Galt, D'Anconia, and Willers all find Dagny attractrive but no one else makes referance to it.
Floyd Ferris calls her 'an odd sort of conquest' when blackmailing Reardon.
I think not.
He developes it as an employee of a motor company that is turning into a cooperative.
He abandons the prototype, saying that it is not his property.
But what about the idea itself?
I've a strong feeling that anything you invent on company time and with company materials belongs to the company rather than the inventor.
Can anyone confirm this?
Is US law different from British law?
Thanks for the comment, reliable sources.
Second of all, "Atlas Shrugged" has, by Rand's design, become a part of popular culture -- and that's worth noting.
Perhaps a list is not the best way of doing so, but I think it is important to include that fact and the nature of its popular dissemination nonetheless.
Just because you think the novel is a "great work of literature" doesn't mean that this fact or its details should be excluded entirely.
If you have ideas of how to reform its structure, please do offer them.
Personally, I haven't been particularly invested in this article and, therefore, haven't really made an effort myself.
So, I think rather than excising such list sections entirely, those sections should be modified appropriately by editors working together in good faith and operating on consensus.
As for the best presentation of that information, I do not favor list or prose.
Either seems fine.
The "In Popular Culture" section contains an error.
Atlas Shrugged is not the book referenced in A Scanner Darkly.
The Fountainhead is the correct novel that appears in both the movie and the book by Philip K. Dick.
I keep seeing October 12 mentioned by many as the publication date of Atlas Shrugged.
I see only October 10 in items from ARI.
The article currently states that no railroad like the one in the book existed, this source disagrees.
The letter A can be traced to a pictogram of an ox head in Egyptian hieroglyph or the Proto-semitic alphabet.
Egyptian hieroglyph ox's head!
Greek Alpha!
Etruscan A!
When the alpha.
In most other languages that use the Latin alphabet, the letter A denotes either an International Phonetic Alphabet, variants of the letter A denote various vowels.
In X-SAMPA, capital A denotes the open back unrounded vowel and lowercase a denotes the open front unrounded vowel.
English, and the second-most common in French.
This derives from Greek.
In lowercase a is U+0061.
The binary 01000001 and 01100001, respectively.
The EBCDIC code for capital A is 193 and for lowercase a is 129.
The morse code for A is dit dah or a dot and a dash.
From the American Civil War until World War II, Alabama, like many Southern States, suffered economic hardship.
In the years following the war, Alabama experienced significant recovery as the economy of the state transitioned from agriculture to diversified interests in heavy manufacturing, mineral extraction, education, and high technology.
Today, the state is heavily invested in the aerospace, education, health care, banking, and various heavy industries including automobile manufacturing, mineral extraction, steel production and fabrication.
The use of state names derived from Native American languages is common with an estimated 27 states having names of Native American origin.
An article without a medicine men.
About three-fifths of the land area is a gentle plain with a general descent towards the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico.
Another natural wonder in Alabama is Winston County.
Alabama generally ranges in elevation from sea level, down at Mobile Bay, to over 1,800 feet (550&nbsp;m) in the Appalachian Mountains in the northeast.
States bordering Alabama include Georgia to the east; Florida to the south; and Mississippi to the west.
Alabama has coastline at the Gulf of Mexico, in the extreme southern edge of the state.
Alabama also contains the Trail Of Tears National Historic Trail.
Suburban Baldwin County, along the Gulf Coast, is the largest county in the state in both land area and water area.
Metropolitan Area!
South Alabama reports more F5 tornadoes than any other state - according to statistics from the National Climatic Data Center for the period 1 January 1950 to 31 October 2006.
An F5 tornado is the most powerful of its kind.
Several long - tracked F5 tornadoes have contributed to Alabama reporting more tornado fatalities than any other state except for Texas and Mississippi.
The Super Outbreak of March, 1974, badly affected Alabama.
The northern part of the state - along the Tennessee Valley - is one of the areas in the US most vulnerable to violent tornadoes.
The area of Alabama and Mississippi most affected by tornadoes is sometimes referred to as Dixie Alley, as distinct from the Tornado Alley of the Southern Plains.
Alabama is one of the few places in the world that has a secondary tornado season (November and December) in addition to the Spring severe weather season.
The economy of the central "Black Belt" featured large cotton plantations whose owners built their wealth on the labor of enslaved African Americans.
It was named for the dark, fertile soil.
Elsewhere poor whites were subsistence farmers.
According to the 1860 census, enslaved African Americans comprised 45% of the state's population of 964,201.
There were only 2,690 free persons of color.
Alabama seceded from the Union in 1861 to join the Civil War Alabama was readmitted to the Union in 1868.
While not many battles were fought in the state, Alabama contributed about 120,000 soldiers to the Civil War.
At the same time, the state also disenfranchised the industrial northern part of the state.
Because of the long disfranchisement of African Americans, the state continued as one-party Democratic for decades.
It produced a number of national leaders.
World War II brought prosperity.
Cotton faded in importance as the state developed a manufacturing and service base.
In the 1960s under Governor George Wallace, many whites in the state opposed integration efforts.
By the moral crusade of the Civil Rights Movement, African Americans achieved a restoration of voting and other civil rights through the passage of the national Civil Rights Laws of 1964 and 1965.
The Jemison, an area known as Jemison Division.
In a 2007 survey, nearly 70% of respondents could name all four of the Christian Gospels.
Of those who indicated a religious preference, 59% said they possessed a "full understanding" of their faith and needed no further learning.
In a 2007 poll, 92% of Alabamians reported having at least some confidence in churches in the state.
Alabama's US Army Missile Command, headquartered at Redstone Arsenal.
Alabama is also home to the largest industrial growth corridor in the nation, including the surrounding states of Tennessee, Mississippi, Florida, and Georgia.
Most of this growth is due to Alabama's rapidly expanding automotive manufacturing industry which in Alabama alone since its birth in 1993 (and has spread to other states), has generated over 67,800 new jobs.
Alabama currently ranks 2nd in the nation behind Detroit in automobile output, but with recent expansions at sites in Alabama, the state by the first of 2009 will surpass Detroit, and become the largest builder of automobiles in North America.
In May 2007, a site north of Mobile was selected by German steelmaker ThyssenKrupp for a $3.7 billion steel production plant, with the promise of 2,700 permanent jobs.
The city of Mobile, Alabama's only saltwater port, is a busy seaport on the Gulf of Mexico, and with inland waterway access to the Midwest via the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway.
Alabama levies a 2, 4, or 5% personal income tax, depending upon the amount earned and filing status.
The state's general sales tax rate is 4%.
The collection rate could be substantially higher, depending upon additional city and county sales taxes.
The corporate income tax rate is currently 6.5%.
The overall federal, state, and local tax burden in Alabama ranks the state as the second least tax-burdened state in the country.
Alabama as recently as 2003 had an annual budget deficit as high as $670 million, yet is one of only a few handful of states to turn around into large surpluses with its current state's budget surplus at nearly $1.2 billion for 2007, and estimated over $2.1 billion for 2008.
Alabama has five major interstate roads that cross it: I-10 traverses the southernmost portion of the state, running from west to east through Mobile.
Another interstate road, I-22, is currently under construction.
Birmingham with Memphis, Tennessee.
Major airports in Alabama include Muscle Shoals - Northwest Alabama Regional Airport (MSL), Tuscaloosa Regional Airport (TCL), and Pryor Field Regional Airport (DCU).
The foundational document for Alabama's government is the Alabama Constitution, which was ratified in 1901.
The legislative branch is the Alabama Legislature, a bicameral assembly composed of the Alabama House of Representatives, with 105 members, and the Alabama Senate, with 35 members.
The Legislature is responsible for writing, debating, passing, or defeating state legislation.
The executive branch is responsible for the execution and oversight of laws.
It is headed by the Governor of Alabama.
Other members of executive branch include the cabinet, the Attorney General of Alabama, the Alabama Secretary of State, the Alabama Commissioner of Agriculture and Industries, the Alabama State Treasurer, and the Alabama State Auditor.
The Constitution and applying the law in state criminal and civil cases.
The highest court is the Supreme Court of Alabama.
Alabama has 67 counties.
Each county has its own elected legislative branch, usually called the Board of Commissioners, which usually also has executive authority in the county.
Due to the restraints placed in the Alabama Constitution, all but seven counties (Jefferson, Lee, Mobile, Madison, Montgomery, Shelby, and Tuscaloosa) in the state have little to no home rule.
Instead, most counties in the state must lobby the Local Legislation Committee of the state legislature to get simple local policies such as waste disposal to land use zoning.
Alabama is an alcoholic beverage control state; the government holds a monopoly on the sale of alcohol.
The current Legislature.
Due to the Legislature's power to override a gubernatorial veto by a mere simple majority (most state Legislatures require a 2/3 majority to override a veto), the relationship between the executive and legislative branches can be easily strained when different parties control the branches.
During Republican challengers running in the General Election.
In the 1982 Democratic primary election, the then incumbent Lieutenant Governor lost the Democratic nomination for Governor.
The state Democratic party invalidated the election and placed the Lieutenant Governor's name on the ballot as the Democratic candidate instead of the candidate chosen in the primary.
The voters of the state revolted at what they perceived as disenfranchisement of their right to vote and elected the Republican challenger Guy Hunt as Governor.
This was the first Republican Governor elected in Alabama since Reconstruction.
Since then, Republicans have been increasingly elected to state offices until in 2006 Democrats were barely holding a majority in the state legislature.
And since 1982, only one Democrat has managed to win the Governors office and he failed to win re-election.
Alabama state politics gained nationwide and international attention in the 1950s and 1960s during the American Civil Rights Movement, when it bureaucratically, and at times, violently resisted protests for electoral and social reform.
The state's governor during the period, George Wallace, remains a notorious and controversial figure.
However, in 2007, the Alabama legislature passed, and the Governor signed, a resolution expressing "profound regret" over slavery and its lingering impact.
The bill was signed in the Alabama state house which served as the first Capital of the Confederate States of America.
From 1876 through 1956, Alabama supported only Democratic presidential candidates, by large margins.
The Democrats won with 1964, Republican Barry Goldwater carried the state, in part because of his opposition to the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which restored the franchise for African Americans.
In 1976, Democratic candidate Jimmy Carter from Georgia carried the state, the region, and the nation, but Democratic control of the region slipped thereafter.
Since 1980, Alabama voters have increasingly voted for Republican candidates at the Federal level, especially in Presidential elections.
By contrast, Democratic candidates are elected to many state-level offices and comprise a longstanding majority in the Alabama Legislature.
In Black Belt counties, where African Americans are in the majority.
Public primary and secondary education in Alabama is under the oversight of the Alabama State Board of Education as well as local oversight by 67 county school boards and 60 city boards of education.
Public school funding is appropriated through the Alabama Legislature through the Education Trust Fund.
In FY 2006-2007, Alabama appropriated $3,775,163,578 for primary and secondary education.
That represented an increase of $444,736,387 over the previous fiscal year.
In 2007, over 82 percent of schools made adequate yearly progress (AYP) toward student proficiency under the National No Child Left Behind law.
Alabama's programs of higher education include 14 four-year public universities, numerous two-year community colleges, and 17 private, undergraduate and graduate universities.
Public, post-secondary education in Alabama is overseen by the Alabama Commission on Higher Education.
Colleges and universities in Alabama offer degree programs from 2-year associate degrees to 16 doctoral level programs.
Accreditation of academic programs is through the Southern Association of Schools and Colleges as well as a variety of subject focused national and international accreditation agencies.
He embodies the archetype of the flawed hero, his defect being his pride, symbolized by his vulnerable heel.
Achilles also has the attributes of being the most handsome of the heroes assembled against Troy, as well as the quickest.
Central to his myth is his relationship with Patroclus, characterized in different sources as either deep friendship or passionate love.
Achilles's death came as divine retribution for his temple.
Later legends (beginning with a poem by Statius in the first century AD) state that Achilles was invulnerable on all of his body except for his heel.
These legends state that Achilles was killed in battle by an arrow to the heel, and so an "Achilles' heel" has come to mean a person's principal weakness.
Achilles was the son of the mortal Peleus, king of the Myrmidons, and the immortal sea nymph Thetis in Farsala, Thessaly.
Zeus and Poseidon had been rivals for the hand of Thetis until Prometheus, the fire-bringer, warned Zeus of a prophecy that Thetis would bear a son greater than his father.
For this reason, the two gods withdrew their pursuit, and had her wed to Peleus.
However, she forgot to wet the heel she held him by, leaving him vulnerable at that spot.
However none of the sources before Statius makes any reference to this invulnerability.
Peleus entrusted Achilles to Chiron the Centaur, on Mt.
Pelion, to be raised.
Sing, goddess, the anger of Achilles, the son of Peleus, the destructive rage that brought countless griefs upon the Achaeans.
His anger is at some times wavering, at other times absolute.
The humanization of Achilles by the events of the war is an important theme of the narrative.
When the Greeks left for the Trojan War, they accidentally stopped in Mysia, ruled by King Telephus.
In the resulting battle, Achilles gave Telephus a wound that would not heal; Telephus consulted an oracle, who stated that "he that wounded shall heal".
According to other reports in Orestes for ransom, the ransom being Achilles' aid in healing the wound.
Odysseus reasoned that the spear had inflicted the wound; therefore, the spear must be able to heal it.
Pieces of the spear were scraped off onto the wound and Telephus was healed.
This is an example of sympathetic magic.
According to traditions related by Cycnus of Colonae, a son of Poseidon.
Cycnus was invulnerable, except for his head.
As the battle turned against the Greeks, Nestor declared that had Agamemnon not angered Achilles, the Trojans would not be winning and urged Agamemnon to appease Achilles.
Agamemnon agreed and sent Odysseus and two other chieftains to Achilles with the offer of the return of Briseis and other gifts.
Achilles refused and urged the Greeks to sail home as he was planning to do.
Eventually, however, hoping to retain glory despite his absence from the battle, Achilles prayed to his mother Thetis, asking her to plead with Zeus to allow the Trojans to push back the Greek forces.
The Trojans, led by Hector, subsequently pushed the Greek army back toward the beaches and assaulted the Greek ships.
With the Greek forces on the verge of absolute destruction, Achilles consented to Patroclus leading the Myrmidons into battle, though Achilles would remain at his camp.
Patroclus succeeded in pushing the Trojans back from the beaches, but was killed by Hector before he could lead a proper assault on the city of Troy.
After receiving the news of the death of Patroclus from Antilochus, the son of Nestor, Achilles grieved over his friend and held many funeral games in his honor.
His mother Thetis came to comfort the distraught Achilles.
She persuaded Hephaestus to make new armor for him, in place of the armor that Patroclus had been wearing which was taken by Hector.
The new armor included the Shield of Achilles, described in great detail by the poet.
Commented out because image was deleted: This is a color-corrected version of the original image above.
Enraged over the death of Patroclus, Achilles ended his refusal to fight and took the field killing many men in his rage but always seeking out Hector.
Achilles even engaged in battle with the river god Scamander who became angry that Achilles was choking his waters with all the men he killed.
The god tried to drown Achilles but was stopped by Hera and Hephaestus.
Zeus himself took note of Achilles' rage and sent the gods to restrain him so that he would not go on to sack Troy itself, seeming to show that the unhindered rage of Achilles could defy fate itself as Troy was not meant to be destroyed yet.
Finally Achilles found his prey.
Achilles chased Hector around the wall of Troy three times before Athena, in the form of Hector's favorite and dearest brother, Deiphobus, persuaded Hector to fight face to face.
Achilles got his vengeance, killing Hector with a blow to the neck.
He then tied Hector's body to his chariot and dragged it around the battlefield for nine days.
With the assistance of the god Hermes, Hector's father, Priam, went to Achilles' tent and convinced Achilles to permit him to allow Hector his funeral rites.
Achilles, after his temporary truce with Priam, fought and killed the Amazonian warrior queen Penthesilea.
Following the death of Patroclus, Achilles's closest companion was Nestor's son Antilochus.
When Memnon of Ethiopia killed Antilochus, Achilles was once again drawn onto the battlefield to seek revenge.
The fight between Achilles and Memnon over Antilochus echoes that of Achilles and Hector over Patroclus, except that Memnon (unlike Hector) was also the son of a goddess.
As predicted by Paris &mdash; either by an arrow (to the heel according to Statius), or in an older version by a knife to the back while visiting Polyxena, a princess of Troy.
In some versions, the god Apollo guided Paris' arrow.
Both versions conspicuously deny the killer any sort of valor owing to the common conception that Paris was a coward and not the man his brother Hector was, and Achilles remains undefeated on the battlefield.
His bones are mingled with those of Patroclus, and funeral games are held.
He was represented in the lost Trojan War epic of Arctinus of Miletus as living after his death in the island of Leuke at the mouth of the Danube (see below).
Paris was later killed by Philoctetes using the enormous bow of Heracles.
Achilles' armor was the object of a feud between Telamonian Ajax (Achilles' older cousin).
They competed for it by giving speeches on why they were the bravest after Achilles and the most deserving to receive it.
Ajax went mad with grief and anguish and vowed to kill his comrades; he started killing sheep, thinking in his madness that they were Greek soldiers.
He then committed suicide.
Achilles' relationship with Patroclus is a key aspect of his myth.
Its exact nature has been a subject of dispute in both the classical period and modern times.
Here is his temple and his statue, an archaic work.
This island is not inhabited, and goats graze on it, not many, which the people who happen to arrive here with their ships, sacrifice to Achilles.
In this temple are also deposited a great many holy gifts, craters, rings and precious stones, offered to Achilles in gratitude.
One can still read inscriptions in Greek and Latin, in which Achilles is praised and celebrated.
The heroic cult of Achilles on Leuce island was widespread in Antiquity, not only along the sealanes of the Pontic Sea but also in maritime cities whose economic interests were tightly connected to the riches of the Black Sea.
Sailors went out of their way to offer sacrifice.
Leuce had also a reputation as a place of healing.
Gregory Nagy, following Leonard Palmer, to mean "a corps of soldiers".
With this derivation, the name would have a double meaning in the poem: When the hero is functioning rightly, his men bring grief to the enemy, but when wrongly, his men get the grief of war.
The poem is in part about the misdirection of anger on the part of leadership.
The name Achilleus was a common and attested name among the Greeks early after a relief from Halicarnassus as the name of a female gladiator fighting, 'Amazonia'.
Roman gladiatorial games often referenced classical mythology and this seems to reference Achilles' fight with Penthesilea, but give it an extra twist of Achilles being 'played' by a man.
According to this story, Odysseus learns from the prophet Calchas that the Achaeans would be unable to capture Troy without Achilles' aid.
Odysseus goes to Skyros in the guise of a peddler selling women's clothes and jewelry and places a shield and spear among his goods.
When Achilles instantly takes up the spear, Odysseus sees through his disguise and convinces him to join the Greek campaign.
In another version of the story, Odysseus arranges for a trumpet alarm to be sounded while he was with Lycomedes' women; while the women flee in panic, Achilles prepares to defend the court, thus giving his identity away.
One of these is Achilles, who when greeted as "blessed in life, blessed in death", responds that he would rather be a slave to the worst of masters than be king of all the dead.
This has been interpreted as a rejection of his warrior life, but also as indignity to his martyrdom being slighted.
Achilles was worshipped as a sea-god in many of the Greek colonies on the Black Sea, the location of the mythical "White Island" which he was said to inhabit after his death, together with many other heroes.
Post-pederastic interpretation of the love between Achilles and Patroclus.
The kings of the Epirus claimed to be descended from Achilles through his son.
Alexander the Great, son of the Epiran princess Olympias, could therefore also claim this descent, and in many ways strove to be like his great ancestor; he is said to have visited his tomb while passing Troy.
Achilles fought and killed the Helene.
The Paris and guided by Apollo punctures his heel.
The tragedian Sophocles also wrote a play with Achilles as the main character, "The Lovers of Achilles".
Only a few fragments survive.
The philosopher Achilles and a tortoise, in which he proved that Achilles could not catch up to a tortoise with a head start, and therefore that motion and change were impossible.
As a student of the monist Parmenides and a member of the Eleatic school, Zeno believed time and motion to be illusions.
Achilles has frequently been mentioned in music.
Amendment to the Constitution in 1865.
Lincoln closely supervised the victorious war effort, especially the selection of top generals, including 1864 presidential election.
Scholars now rank Lincoln among the republicanism.
For some time, Thomas Lincoln, Abraham's father, was a respected and relatively affluent citizen of the Kentucky backcountry.
He had purchased the Sinking Spring Farm in December of 1808 for $200 cash and assumption of a debt.
The family belonged to a Baptist church that had seceded from a larger church over the issue of slavery, although Abraham himself never joined their church, or any other church for that matter.
He later noted that this move was "partly on account of slavery," and partly because of difficulties with land deeds in Kentucky: Unlike land in the Northwest Territory, Kentucky never had a proper U.S. survey, and farmers often had difficulties proving title to their property.
When Lincoln was nine, his mother, then thirty-four years old, died of Sarah Bush Johnston.
In 1830, after more economic and land-title difficulties in Indiana, the family settled on public land in Mississippi rivers.
Lincoln's formal education consisted of about 18 months of schooling, but he was largely self-educated and an avid reader.
He was also a talented local wrestler and skilled with an axe.
Lincoln avoided hunting and fishing because he did not like killing animals, even for food.
Lincoln began his political career in 1832, at age 23, with an unsuccessful campaign for the Sangamon River.
He believed that this would attract steamboat traffic, which would allow the sparsely populated, poorer areas along the river to flourish.
For several months, Lincoln ran a small store in New Salem.
He served four successive terms in the Illinois House of Representatives as a representative from Sangamon County, and became a leader of the Illinois Whig party.
Following Lincoln's death, Herndon began collecting stories about Lincoln and published them in "Herndon's Lincoln".
On Mary Todd, daughter of a prominent slave-owning family from Kentucky.
The couple had four sons.
Robert Todd Lincoln was born in Springfield, Illinois on 1 August, 1843.
Their only child to survive into adulthood, young Robert attended Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard College.
The other Lincoln children were born in Springfield, Illinois, and died either during childhood or their teen years.
Warned by his law partner, governorship.
Acceptance of this offer would have ended his career in the rapidly growing state of Illinois, so Lincoln declined the position.
Returning to Springfield, Lincoln gave up politics for several years and turned his energies to his law practice.
By the mid-1850s, Lincoln's caseload focused largely on the competing transportation interests of Illinois Supreme Court was eventually cited by several other courts throughout the United States.
The case became famous for Lincoln's use of judicial notice--a rare tactic at that time--to show that an eyewitness had lied on the stand.
After the witness testified to having seen the crime by moonlight, Lincoln produced a "Farmers' Almanac" to show that the moon on that date was at such a low angle that it could not have provided enough illumination to see anything clearly.
Based almost entirely on this evidence, Armstrong was acquitted.
Lincoln was involved in more than 5,100 cases in Illinois alone during his 23-year legal career.
Though many of these cases involved little more than filing a writ, others were more substantial and quite involved.
Lincoln and his partners appeared before the Illinois State Supreme Court more than 400 times.
Lincoln returned to politics in response to the Kansas-Nebraska Act (1854), which expressly repealed the limits on slavery's extent as determined by the Missouri Compromise (1820).
Drawing on remnants of the old Whig, Free Soil, Liberty and Democratic parties, he was instrumental in forming the new Republican Party.
In a stirring campaign, the Republicans carried Illinois in 1854 and elected a senator.
Lincoln was the obvious choice, but to keep the new party balanced he allowed the election to go to an ex-Democrat Lyman Trumbull.
Though the Republican legislative candidates won more popular votes, the Democrats won more seats, and the legislature reelected Douglas to the Senate.
Nevertheless, Lincoln's eloquence transformed him into a national political star.
During the debates of 1858, the issue of race was often discussed.
On May 9-10, 1860, the Illinois Republican State Convention was held in Decatur.
At this convention, Lincoln received his first endorsement to run for the presidency.
Entering the presidential nomination process as a distinct underdog, Lincoln was eventually chosen as the Republican candidate for the 1860 election for several reasons.
Throughout the election, Lincoln did not campaign or give speeches.
This was handled by the state and county Republican organizations, who used the latest techniques to sustain party enthusiasm and thus obtain high turnout.
There was little effort to convert non-Republicans, and there was virtually no campaigning in the South except for a few border cities such as Wheeling, Virginia; indeed, the party did not even run a slate in most of the South.
In the North, there were thousands of Republican speakers, tons of campaign posters and leaflets, and thousands of newspaper editorials.
These focused first on the party platform, and second on Lincoln's life story, making the most of his boyhood poverty, his pioneer background, his native genius, and his rise from obscurity.
His nicknames, "Honest Abe" and "the Rail-Splitter," were exploited to the full.
The goal was to emphasize the superior power of "free labor," whereby a common farm boy could work his way to the top by his own efforts.
On fusion tickets in some states, but even if his opponents had combined in every state, Lincoln had a majority vote in all but two of the states in which he won the electoral votes and would still have won the electoral college and the election.
As Lincoln's election became more likely, secessionists made it clear that their states would leave the Union.
South Carolina took the lead, followed by six other cotton-growing states in the deep South.
The upper South (Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, Missouri, and Arkansas) listened to and rejected the secessionist appeal.
They decided to stay in the Union, though they warned Lincoln that they would not support an invasion through their territory.
The seven Confederate states seceded before Lincoln took office, declaring themselves to be a new nation, the Confederate States of America.
President Buchanan and President-elect Lincoln refused to recognize the Confederacy.
Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national governments," arguing further that the purpose of the United States Constitution was "to form a more perfect union" than the Articles of Confederation which were "explicitly" perpetual, thus the Constitution too was perpetual.
He asked rhetorically that even were the Constitution a simple contract, would it not require the agreement of all parties to rescind it?
By the time Lincoln took office, the Confederacy was an established fact, and no leaders of the insurrection proposed rejoining the Union on any terms.
No compromise was found because a compromise was deemed virtually impossible.
Lincoln might have allowed the southern states to secede, and some Republicans recommended that.
Historian Allan Nevins argues that Lincoln made three miscalculations in believing that he could preserve the Union, hold government property, and still avoid war.
He "temporarily underrated the gravity of the crisis," overestimated the strength of Unionist sentiment in the South and border states, and misunderstood the conditional support of Unionists in the border states.
Virginia, which had repeatedly warned Lincoln that it would not allow an invasion of its territory or join an attack on another state, responded by seceding, along with North Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas.
The slave states of Missouri, Kentucky, Maryland, and Delaware did not secede, and Lincoln urgently negotiated with state leaders there, promising not to interfere with slavery.
After the fighting started, he had rebel leaders arrested in all the border areas (especially in Maryland) and held in military prisons without trial.
Over 18,000 were arrested, though none were executed.
In July 1862, Congress moved to free the slaves by passing the Second Confiscation Act.
The goal was to weaken the rebellion, which was led and controlled by slave owners.
While it did not abolish the legal institution of slavery (the Thirteenth Amendment did that), the Act showed that Lincoln had the support of Congress in liberating slaves owned by rebels.
Lincoln is well known for ending slavery in the United States.
The Emancipation Proclamation, announced on September 22 and put into effect on January 1, 1863, freed slaves in territories not under Union control.
As Union armies advanced south, more slaves were liberated until all of them in Confederate hands (over three million) were freed.
In September 1862, thirteen northern governors met in Altoona, Pennsylvania, at the Loyal War Governors' Conference to discuss the Proclamation and Union war effort.
For some time, Lincoln continued earlier plans to set up colonies for the newly freed slaves.
He commented favorably on colonization in the Emancipation Proclamation, but all attempts at such a massive undertaking failed.
After Union victories at Union Party ticket uniting Republicans and War Democrats.
Nevertheless, Republicans across the country feared that Lincoln would be defeated.
Lincoln did not show the pledge to his cabinet, but asked them to sign the sealed envelope.
Lincoln provided Grant with new replacements and mobilized his party to support Grant and win local support for the war effort.
Atlanta in September ended defeatist jitters; the Democratic Party was deeply split, with some leaders and most soldiers openly for Lincoln; the Union party was united and energized, and Lincoln was easily reelected in a landslide.
He won all but two states, capturing 212 of 233 electoral votes.
On second inaugural address, his favorite of all his speeches.
At this time, a victory over the rebels was at hand, slavery was dead, and Lincoln was looking to the future.
The war was a source of constant frustration for the president, and occupied nearly all of his time.
He had a contentious relationship with General York Rivers.
John Pope, a Republican, as head of the new Army of Virginia.
Pope complied with Lincoln's strategic desire to move toward Richmond from the north, thus protecting the capital from attack.
But Pope was soundly defeated at the Second Battle of Bull Run in the summer of 1862, forcing the Army of the Potomac to defend Washington for a second time.
In response to his failure, Pope was sent to Minnesota to fight the Sioux.
Panicked by Lee's invasion of Maryland, Lincoln restored McClellan to command of all forces around Washington in time for the Fredericksburg, Joseph Hooker was given the command, despite his idle talk about the necessity for a military dictator to win the war and a past history of criticizing his commanders.
Hooker was routed by Lee at the Battle of Chancellorsville (May 1863), and relieved of command early in the subsequent Gettysburg Campaign replaced by George Meade.
After the Union victory at Gettysburg, Meade's failure to pursue Lee and months of inactivity for the Army of the Potomac persuaded Lincoln to bring in a western general, Cold Harbor, but by proportionately higher Confederate losses.
His invasion campaign eventually bottled Lee up in the Siege of Petersburg, so that Grant could take Richmond, and bring the war to a close in the spring of 1865.
Lincoln authorized Grant to target civilians and infrastructure, hoping to destroy the South's morale and weaken its economic ability to continue fighting.
This allowed Generals Georgia, and South Carolina.
The damage caused by Sherman's March to the Sea through Georgia totaled in excess of $100 million by Sherman's own estimate.
Lincoln had a star-crossed record as a military leader, possessing a keen understanding of strategic points (such as the Mississippi River and the fortress city of Vicksburg) and the importance of defeating the enemy's army, rather than simply capturing cities.
He had, however, limited success in motivating his commanders to adopt his strategies until late 1863, when he found a man who shared his vision of the war in Ulysses S. Grant.
Only then could he insist on using African American troops and relentlessly pursue a series of coordinated offensives in multiple theaters.
Throughout the war, Lincoln showed a keen curiosity with the military campaigns.
He spent hours at the raid on Washington, D.C. in 1864, Lincoln had to be told to duck to avoid being shot while observing the battle.
Reconstruction began during the war as Lincoln and his associates pondered questions of how to reintegrate the Southern states and what to do with Confederate leaders and the freed slaves.
On Jefferson Davis's own desk, symbolically saying to the nation that the President of the United States held authority over the entire land.
Lincoln's powerful rhetoric defined the issues of the war for the nation, the world, and posterity.
His extraordinary command of the English language was evidenced in the Gettysburg Address, a speech dedicating the cemetery at Gettysburg that he delivered on November 19, 1863.
Lincoln believed in the Whig theory of the presidency, which left Congress to write the laws while he signed them, vetoing only those bills that threatened his war powers.
Thus, he signed the Department of Agriculture in 1862, although that institution would not become a Cabinet-level department until 1889.
The Legal Tender Act of 1862 established the paper currency in United States history.
This was done to increase the money supply to pay for fighting the war.
Presented with 303 death warrants for convicted Santee Dakota who had massacred innocent farmers, Lincoln affirmed 39 of these for execution (one was later reprieved).
Originally, Secretary of State William H. Seward.
He was eventually cornered in a Virginia barn house and shot, dying of his wounds soon after.
An army surgeon, Doctor lie in state.
The Army Medical Museum, now named the National Museum of Health and Medicine, has retained in its collection several artifacts relating to the assassination.
Currently on display are the bullet that was fired from the Derringer pistol, the probe used by Barnes, pieces of Lincoln's skull and hair, and the surgeon's cuff stained with Lincoln's blood.
Lincoln's body was carried by train in a grand funeral procession through several states on its way back to Illinois.
While much of the nation mourned him as the savior of the United States, exhumed and reinterred in concrete several feet thick in 1901.
With over 120 photographs taken of him, Lincoln was the most photographed man in the United States up to the time he was assassinated.
In March 1860 in a speech in liberal capitalism who, more than most politicians of the time, was able to express his ideas within the context of Nineteenth Century religious beliefs.
Lincoln did, even as a boy, largely reject Calvinistic "doctrine of necessity" would remain a factor throughout his life.
As Lincoln matured, and especially during his term as president, the idea of a divine will somehow interacting with human affairs more and more influenced his public expressions.
On a personal level, the death of his son Willie in February 1862 may have caused Lincoln to look towards religion for answers and solace.
Declaration of Independence as the philosophical and moral expression of these two philosophies.
He found in the Declaration justification for Whig economic policy and opposition to territorial expansion and the nativist platform of the Know Nothings.
In claiming that all men were created free, Lincoln and the Whigs argued that this freedom required economic advancement, expanded education, territory to grow, and the ability of the nation to absorb the growing immigrant population.
It was the Declaration of Independence, rather than the Bible, that Lincoln most relied on in order to oppose any further territorial expansion of slavery.
He saw the Declaration as more than a political document.
To him, as well as to many abolitionists and other antislavery leaders, it was, foremost, a moral document that had forever determined valuable criteria in shaping the future of the nation.
Lincoln's death made the President a greatest presidents in U.S. history, often appearing in the first position.
Among contemporary admirers, Lincoln is usually seen as personifying classical values of honesty and integrity, as well as respect for individual and minority rights, and human freedom in general.
Many American organizations of all purposes and agendas continue to cite his name and image, with interests ranging from the "Abraham Lincoln" (CVN-72) were named in his honor.
Also, the Liberty ship, SS "Nancy Hanks" was named to honor his mother.
During the Spanish Civil War the American faction of the International Brigades named themselves the Abraham Lincoln Brigade after Lincoln.
Lincoln has been memorialized in many city names, notably the state nickname for Illinois is "Land of Lincoln".
Abraham Lincoln's birthday, February 12, was formerly a national holiday, now commemorated as Presidents' Day.
However, it is still observed in Illinois and many other states as a separate legal holiday, Lincoln's Birthday.
A dozen states have legal holidays celebrating the third Monday in February as 'Presidents' Day' as a combination Washington-Lincoln Day.
To commemorate his upcoming 200th birthday in February 2009, Congress established the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission (ALBC) in 2000.
Lincoln's birthplace and family home are national historic memorials: the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National Historic Site in Hodgenville, and the Lincoln Home National Historic Site in Springfield, Illinois.
The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum opened in Springfield in 2005; it is a major tourist attraction, with state-of-the-art exhibits.
The Abraham Lincoln National Cemetery is located in Elwood, Illinois.
Basler, Roy P. ed.
Basler, Roy P. ed.
George Haven Putnam, Litt.
All aspects of Aristotle's philosophy continue to be the object of active academic study today.
Aristotle was born in Philip of Macedon to become tutor to Alexander the Great.
After spending several years tutoring the young Alexander, Aristotle returned to Athens.
By Palaephatus of Abydus.
It is during this period in Athens when Aristotle is believed to have composed many of his works.
Aristotle wrote many dialogues, only fragments of which survived.
These works, although connected in many fundamental ways, vary significantly in both style and substance.
Aristotle's conception of logic was the dominant form of logic until 19th century advances in mathematical logic.
Kant stated in the "Critique of Pure Reason" that Aristotle's theory of logic completely accounted for the core of deductive inference.
The term "logic" he reserved to mean "dialectics".
Most of Aristotle's work is probably not in its original form, since it was most likely edited by students and later lecturers.
The order of the books (or the teachings from which they are composed) is not certain, but this list was derived from analysis of Aristotle's writings.
It goes from the basics, the analysis of simple terms in the Categories, to the study of more complex forms, namely, syllogisms (in the Analytics) and dialectics (in the Topics and Sophistical Refutations).
There is one volume of Aristotle's concerning logic not found in the "Organon", namely the fourth book of "Metaphysics.".
Aristotle is also the creator of syllogisms with modalities (modal logic).
The word modal refers to the word 'modes', explaining the fact that modal logic deals with the modes of truth.
Aristotle introduced the qualification of 'necessary' and 'possible' premises.
In Aristotle's terminology, "natural philosophy" is a branch of philosophy examining the phenomena of the natural world, and included fields that would be regarded today as physics, biology and other natural sciences.
Today's philosophy tends to exclude empirical study of the natural world by means of the scientific method.
In contrast, Aristotle's philosophical endeavors encompassed virtually all facets of intellectual inquiry.
In the period between his two stays in Athens, between his times at the Academy and the Lyceum, Aristotle conducted most of the scientific thinking and research for which he is renowned today.
In fact, most of Aristotle's life was devoted to the study of the objects of natural science.
Aristotle's writings on science are largely qualitative, as opposed to quantitative.
Beginning in the sixteenth century, scientists began applying mathematics to the physical sciences, and Aristotle's work in this area was deemed hopelessly inadequate.
His failings were largely due to the absence of concepts like mass, velocity, force and temperature.
He had a conception of speed and temperature, but no quantitative understanding of them, which was partly due to the absence of basic experimental devices, like clocks and thermometers.
His writings provide an account of many scientific observations, but there are some curious errors.
In places, Aristotle goes too far in deriving 'laws of the universe' from simple observation and over-stretched reason.
Today's scientific method assumes that such thinking without sufficient facts is ineffective, and that discerning the validity of one's hypothesis requires far more rigorous experimentation than that which Aristotle used to support his laws.
Aristotle also had some scientific blind spots, the largest being his inability to see the application of mathematics to physics.
Aristotle held that physics was about changing objects with a reality of their own, whereas mathematics was about unchanging objects without a reality of their own.
In this philosophy, he could not imagine that there was a relationship between them.
This erroneous concept was eventually rejected.
Since he was perhaps the philosopher most respected by European thinkers during and after the Renaissance, these thinkers often took Aristotle's erroneous positions as given, which held back science in this epoch.
However, Aristotle's scientific shortcomings should not mislead one into forgetting his great advances in the many scientific fields.
For instance, he founded logic as a formal science and created foundations to biology that were not superseded (in the West) for two millennia.
Moreover, he introduced the fundamental notion that nature is composed of things that change and that studying such changes can provide useful knowledge of underlying constants.
This made the study of physics, and all other sciences, respectable.
In actuality, however, this observation transcends physics into metaphysics.
Each of the four earthly elements has its natural place; the earth at the centre of the universe, then water, then air, then fire.
When they are out of their natural place they have natural motion, requiring no external cause, which is towards that place; so bodies sink in water, air bubbles up, rain falls, flame rises in air.
The heavenly element has perpetual circular motion.
The material cause is that from which a thing comes into existence as from its parts, constituents, substratum or materials.
This reduces the explanation of causes to the parts (factors, elements, constituents, ingredients) forming the whole (system, structure, compound, complex, composite, or combination), a relationship known as the part-whole causation.
The formal cause tells us what a thing is, that any thing is determined by the definition, form, pattern, essence, whole, synthesis or archetype.
The efficient cause is that from which the change or the ending of the change first starts.
It identifies 'what makes of what is made and what causes change of what is changed' and so suggests all sorts of agents, nonliving or living, acting as the sources of change or movement or rest.
The final cause is that for the sake of which a thing exists or is done, including both purposeful and instrumental actions and activities.
The final cause or telos is the purpose or end that something is supposed to serve, or it is that from which and that to which the change is.
This also covers modern ideas of mental causation involving such psychological causes as volition, need, motivation, or motives, rational, irrational, ethical, all that gives purpose to behavior.
Additionally, things can be causes of one another, causing each other reciprocally, as hard work causes fitness and vice versa, although not in the same way or function, the one is as the beginning of change, the other as the goal.
Moreover, Aristotle indicated that the same thing can be the cause of contrary effects; its presence and absence may result in different outcomes.
Aristotle marked two modes of causation: proper (prior) causation and accidental (chance) causation.
All causes, proper and incidental, can be spoken as potential or as actual, particular or generic.
The same language refers to the effects of causes, so that generic effects assigned to generic causes, particular effects to particular causes, operating causes to actual effects.
Essentially, causality does not suggest a temporal relation between the cause and the effect.
Spontaneity and chance are causes of effects.
Chance as an incidental cause lies in the realm of accidental things.
It is "from what is spontaneous" (but note that what is spontaneous does not come from chance).
For a better understanding of Aristotle's conception of "chance" it might be better to think of "coincidence": Something takes place by chance if a person sets out with the intent of having one thing take place, but with the result of another thing (not intended) taking place.
For example: A person seeks donations.
That person may find another person willing to donate a substantial sum.
However, if the person seeking the donations met the person donating, not for the purpose of collecting donations, but for some other purpose, Aristotle would call the collecting of the donation by that particular donator a result of chance.
It must be unusual that something happens by chance.
In other words, if something happens all or most of the time, we cannot say that it is by chance.
According to Aristotle, luck must involve choice (and thus deliberation), and only humans are capable of deliberation and choice.
The coming to be is a change where nothing persists of which the resultant is a property.
Referring to potentiality, this is what a thing is capable of doing, or being acted upon, if it is not prevented by something else.
For that for the sake of which a thing is, is its principle, and the becoming is for the sake of the end; and the actuality is the end, and it is for the sake of this that the potentiality is acquired.
In conclusion, the "matter" of the house is its "potentiality" and the "form" is its "actuality".
Aristotle's predecessor, Plato, argued that all things have a universal form, which could be either a property, or a relation to other things.
When we look at an apple, for example, we see an apple, and we also analyze a form of an apple.
In this distinction, there is a particular apple and a universal form of an apple.
Moreover, we can place an apple next to a book, so that we can speak of both the book and apple as being next to each other.
Plato argued that there are some universal forms that are not a part of particular things.
Bertrand Russell is a contemporary philosopher that agreed with Plato on the existence of "uninstantiated universals".
Aristotle argued that there are no universals that are unattached to existing things.
According to Aristotle, if a universal exists, either as a particular or a relation, then there must have been, must be currently, or must be in the future, something on which the universal can be predicated.
Consequently, according to Aristotle, if it is not the case that some universal can be predicated to an object that exists at some period of time, then it does not exist.
One way for contemporary philosophers to justify this position is by asserting the eleatic principle.
In addition, Aristotle disagreed with Plato about the location of universals.
As Plato spoke of the world of the forms, a location where all universal forms subsist, Aristotle maintained that universals exist within each thing on which each universal is predicated.
So, according to Aristotle, the form of apple exists within each apple, rather than in the world of the forms.
Aristotle is the earliest natural historian whose work has survived in some detail.
Aristotle did his research on natural history on the isle of hound shark Mustelus laevis.
In a similar fashion, Aristotle believed that creatures were arranged in a graded scale of perfection rising from plants on up to man, the "scala naturae" or Great Chain of Being.
His system had eleven grades, arranged according "to the degree to which they are infected with potentiality", expressed in their form at birth.
The highest animals laid warm and wet creatures alive, the lowest bore theirs cold, dry, and in thick eggs.
Aristotle also held that the level of a creature's perfection was reflected in its form, but not foreordained by that form.
Aristotle, in contrast to earlier philosophers, but in accordance with the Egyptians, placed the rational soul in the heart, rather than the brain.
Notable is Aristotle's division of sensation and thought, which generally went against previous philosophers, with the exception of Alcmaeon.
Rather than focus on formal causes, as Aristotle did, Theophrastus suggested a mechanistic scheme, drawing analogies between natural and artificial processes, and relying on Aristotle's concept of the efficient cause.
Theophrastus also recognized the role of sex in the reproduction of some higher plants, though this last discovery was lost in later ages.
Following Theophrastus, the Lyceum failed to produce any original work.
Though interest in Aristotle's ideas survived, they were generally taken unquestioningly.
It is not until the age of Ptolemies that advances in biology can be again found.
The first medical teacher at Alexandria teleological viewpoint of Aristotelian ideas about life, teleology (and after the rise of Christianity, natural theology) would remain central to biological thought essentially until the 18th and 19th centuries.
Aristotle taught that virtue has to do with the proper function of a thing.
An eye is only a good eye in so much as it can see, because the proper function of an eye is sight.
Aristotle reasoned that man must have a function uncommon to anything else, and that this function must be an activity of the soul.
Aristotle identified the best activity of the soul as golden mean between two vices - one an excess and one a deficiency.
It should be noted that the modern understanding of a political community is that of the state.
However, the state was foreign to Aristotle.
He referred to political communities as cities.
Aristotle considered imitative, each varying in imitation by media, object, and manner.
For example, music imitates with the media of rhythm and harmony, whereas dance imitates with rhythm alone, and poetry with language.
The forms also differ in their object of imitation.
Comedy, for instance, is a dramatic imitation of men worse than average; whereas tragedy imitates men slightly better than average.
Lastly, the forms differ in their manner of imitiation - through narrative or character, through change or no change, and through drama or no drama.
Aristotle believed that imitiation is natural to mankind and constitutes one of mankind's advantages over animals.
Aristotle taught that tragedy is composed of six elements: plot-structure, character, style, spectacle, and lyric poetry.
The characters in a tragedy are merely a means of driving the story; and the plot, not the characters, is the chief focus of tragedy.
Tragedy is the imitation of action arrousing pity and fear, and is meant to effect the catharsis of those same emotions.
He suggest that because tragedy possesses all the attributes of an epic, possibly possesses additional attributes such as spectacle and music, is more unified, and achieves the aim of its mimesis in shorter scope, it can be considered superior to epic.
The manuscripts were left from Aristotle to his successor Theophrastus, who in turn willed them to Neleus of Scepsis.
Neleus supposedly took the writings from Athens to Scepsis, where his heirs let them languish in a cellar until the first century BC, when Apellicon of Teos discovered and purchased the manuscripts, bringing them back to Athens.
According to the story, Apellicon tried to repair some of the damage that was done during the manuscripts' stay in the basement, introducing a number of errors into the text.
When Lucius Cornelius Sulla occupied Athens in 86 BC, he carried off the library of Appellicon to Rome, where they were first published in 60 BC by the grammarian Tyrranion of Amisus and then by philosopher Andronicus of Rhodes.
After the Roman period, Aristotle's works were by and large lost to the West for a second time.
They were, however, preserved in the East by various Muslim scholars and philosophers, many of whom wrote extensive commentaries on his works.
The immediate influence of Aristotle's work was felt as the Lyceum grew into the Peripatetic school.
The German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche has been said to have taken nearly all of his political philosophy from Aristotle.
It is Martin Heidegger, not Nietzsche, who elaborated a new interpretation of Aristotle, intended to warrant his deconstruction of scholastic and philosophical tradition.
More recently, Alasdair MacIntyre has attempted to reform what he calls the Aristotelian tradition in a way that is anti-elitist and capable of disputing the claims of both liberals and Nietzscheans.
The secondary literature on Aristotle is vast.
The following references are only a small selection.
Gershwin composed the piece on commission from the New York Philharmonic.
He also did the orchestration.
Gershwin scored "An American in Paris" for the standard instruments of the symphony orchestra plus celesta, saxophone, and automobile horns.
Gershwin brought back some Parisian taxi horns for the New York premiere of the composition which took place on December 13, 1928 in Carnegie Hall with Walter Damrosch conducting the New York Philharmonic.
The very first recording was made for RCA Victor in 1929 with Nathaniel Shilkret conducting the Victor Symphony Orchestra, drawn from members of the Philadelphia Orchestra.
Then, a little later, Shilkret discovered there was no one to play the brief celesta solo during the slow section, so he hastily asked Gershwin if he might play the solo; Gershwin said he could and so he briefly participated in the actual recording.
Later, Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops Orchestra recorded the work for RCA Victor, including one of the first stereo recordings of the music.
In 1945, Arturo Toscanini and the NBC Symphony Orchestra recorded the music in Carnegie Hall, one of the few commercial recordings Toscanini made of music by an American composer.
In 1951, MGM released a musical comedy, "An American in Paris", featuring Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron.
Winner of numerous awards, including the 1951 Best Picture Oscar, the film was directed by Vincente Minnelli, featured many tunes of Gershwin, and concluded with an extensive, elaborate dance sequence built around Gershwin's symphonic poem (arranged for the film by Johnny Green).
A part of the symphonic composition is also featured in "As Good as It Gets", released in 1997.
It was hosted by day-time television talk show host Ellen DeGeneres.
Since 1950, the statuettes have been legally encumbered by the requirement that neither winners nor their heirs may sell the statuettes without first offering to sell them back to the Academy for $1.
If a winner refuses to agree to this stipulation, then the Academy keeps the statuette.
Academy Awards not protected by this agreement have been sold in public auctions and private deals for six-figure sums (Levy 2003).
Wanna Buy An Oscar?
All members must be invited to join.
Invitation comes from the Board of Governors, on behalf of Academy Branch Executive Committees.
Membership eligibility may be achieved by a competitive nomination or a member may submit a name based on other significant contribution to the field of motion pictures.
Though winning an Academy Award usually results in an invitation to join, membership is "not automatic".
Academy membership is divided into 15 Branches, representing different disciplines in motion pictures.
As of the 79th Academy Awards, 847 members (past and present) of the Screen Actors Guild have been nominated for an Oscar (in all categories).
The major awards are given out at a live televised ceremony, most commonly in February or March following the relevant calendar year, and six weeks after the announcement of the nominees.
This is an elaborate extravaganza, with the invited guests walking up the red carpet in the creations of the most prominent fashion designers of the day.
The Academy has for several years claimed that the award show has a billion viewers internationally, but this has so far not been confirmed by any independent sources.
Neither has the Academy explained how it has reached this figure.
The Academy Awards is the only awards ceremony televised live across the United States excluding Grammys are broadcast live in the East Coast, but they are on tape delay in the West Coast.
The Biltmore Hotel.
From 1950 to 1960, the awards were presented at Hollywood's Pantages Theater.
The Oscars then moved to the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium in Santa Monica, California in 1961.
By 1968, the Academy decided to move the ceremonies back to Los Angeles, this time at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion in the Los Angeles Music Center.
The Dorothy Chandler Pavilion hosted 20 consecutive Oscar ceremonies until 1988, when the Academy started to alternate between the Music Center and the Shrine Auditorium.
Can the favorites go on to win?
Aggressive studio lobbying still appears the most powerful indicator of what movie's likely to luck out at the Oscars, not what the British Academy have deemed award-worthy.
In the first year of the awards, the Best Director category was split into separate Drama and Comedy categories.
At times, the Best Original Score category has been split into separate Drama and Comedy/Musical categories.
Today, the Best Original Score category is one category.
From the 1930s through the 1960s, the Cinematography, Art Direction, and Costume Design awards were split into separate categories for black and white and color films.
The Board of Governors meets each year and considers other new categories.
These awards are voted on by special committees, rather than by the Academy membership as a whole, but the actor/actress voted to receive the special award can turn down the offer.
In the film, there are no male actors and the four leading actresses dubbed themselves in the Castillian version.
Each illustration features an animal from the animal kingdom (A is for alligator, B is for butterfly, etc).
The illustrations contain dozens of small objects that the curious reader can try to identify.
As an additional challenge, the author has hidden a picture of himself as a child in every picture.
A television series was also created, based on the book.
Time coordinates on the TAI scales are conventionally specified using traditional means of specifying days, carried over from non-uniform time standards based on the rotation of the Earth.
Specifically, both Julian Dates and the Gregorian calendar are used.
Universal Time at the beginning of 1958, and the two have drifted apart ever since.
Many of these are caesium atomic clocks, which are the standard by which the SI second is defined.
Due to the averaging it is far more stable than any clock would be alone.
The participating institutions each broadcast in real time a frequency signal with time codes, which is their estimate of TAI.
The better laboratories' signals are mutually synchronised to within less than 10-7 s, but there are outliers up to 10-5 s out.
The clocks at different institutions are regularly compared against each other.
The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) combines these measurements to retrospectively calculate the weighted average that forms the most stable time scale possible.
Atomic timekeeping services started experimentally in 1955, using the first caesium atomic clock at the National Physical Laboratory, UK (NPL).
The clocks were compared by listening to radio time signals based on them.
Also in 1961, UTC began.
In 1967 the SI second was redefined in terms of the frequency supplied by a caesium atomic clock.
In the 1970s it became clear that the clocks participating in TAI were ticking at different rates due to gravitational time dilation, and the combined TAI scale therefore corresponded to an average of the altitudes of the various clocks.
The instant that the gravitational correction started to be applied serves as the epoch for Barycentric Coordinate Time (TCB), Geocentric Coordinate Time (TCG), and Terrestrial Time (TT).
In the 1990s annual periodic variations in the rate of some clocks were traced to blackbody radiation that varies with the ambient temperature.
It became clear that a correction for this was required.
Accordingly, in 1997 the BIPM declared that the definition of the SI second referred to a caesium atom at rest and at absolute zero temperature.
Temperature corrections were implemented in TAI from 1995 to 1998, speeding TAI up by about 10-14.3.
Some individuals may feel both altruism and duty, while others may not.
Pure altruism is giving without regard to reward or the benefits of recognition.
The concept has a long history in ethologists.
While ideas about altruism from one field can have an impact on the other fields, the different methods and focuses of these fields lead to different perspectives on altruism.
Philosophers who support egoism have argued that altruism is demeaning to the individual and that no moral obligation to help others actually exists.
Nietzsche asserts that altruism is predicated on the assumption that others are more important than one's self and that such a position is degrading and demeaning.
He also claims that it was very uncommon for people in Europe to consider the sacrifice of one's own interests for others as virtuous until after the advent of Christianity.
These protists live as individual amoebae until starved, at which point they aggregate and form a multicellular fruiting body in which some cells sacrifice themselves to promote the survival of other cells in the fruiting body.
Social behavior and altruism share many similarities to the interactions between the many parts (cells, genes) of an organism, but are distinguished by the ability of each individual to reproduce indefinitely without an absolute requirement for its neighbors.
Jorge Moll and Jordan Grafman, neuroscientists at the mesolimbic reward pathway, a primitive part of the brain that usually lights up in response to food and sex.
However, when volunteers generously placed their interests of others before their own by making charitable donations, another brain circuit was selectively activated: the subgenual cortex/septal region.
These structures are intimately related to social attachment and bonding in other species.
A new study by Samuel Bowles at the Santa Fe Institute in New Mexico, US, is seen by some as breathing new life into the model of group selection for Altruism, known as "Survival of the nicest".
Bowles conducted a genetic analysis of contemporary foraging groups, including Australian aboriginals, native Siberian Inuit populations and indigenous tribal groups in Africa.
It was found that hunter-gatherer bands of up to 30 individuals were considerably more closely related than was previously thought.
Under these conditions, thought to be similar to those of the middle and upper Paleolithic, altruism towards other group-members would improve the overall fitness of the group.
If an individual defended the group but was killed, any genes that the individual shared with the overall group would still be passed on.
Norwegian Philosopher self-actualised "ecological self", in which it is the interconnectedness within progressively larger wholes, ultimately incorporating the whole of life (see Gaia hypothesis), means that our self interest ultimately requires the flourishing and well-being of the whole of life itself.
This concept, similar in some respects to the land ethic of Aldo Leopold, sets the concept of Altruism within the widest possible boundary of moral concern.
On a somewhat related note, altruism is often held &mdash; even by non-altruists &mdash; to be the kind of ethic that should guide the actions of politicians and other people in positions of power.
Such people are usually expected to set their own interests aside and serve the populace.
When they do not, they may be criticized as defaulting on what is believed to be an ethical obligation to place the interests of others above their own.
If one performs an act beneficial to others with a view to gaining some personal benefit, then it isn't an altruistically motivated act.
Psychological egoism has also been accused of using circular logic: "If a person willingly performs an act, that means he derives personal enjoyment from it; therefore, people only perform acts that give them personal enjoyment".
This particular statement is circular because its conclusion is identical to its hypothesis (it assumes that people only perform acts that give them personal enjoyment, and concludes that people only perform acts that give them personal enjoyment).
In this way one need not speculate on the motives of the altruist in question.
Humans are not exclusively altruistic towards family members, previous co-operators or potential future allies, but can be altruistic towards people they don't know and will never meet.
For example, some humans donate to international charities and volunteer their time to help society's less fortunate.
It can however be argued that an individual would contribute to a charity to gain respect or stature within his/her own community.
It strains plausibility to claim that these altruistic deeds are done in the hope of a return favor.
According to some, it is difficult to believe that these behaviors are solely explained as indirect selfish game-theoretic explanation glosses over is the fact that altruistic behavior can be attributed to that apparently mysterious phenomenon, the conscience.
One recent suggestion, proposed by the philosopher Daniel Dennett, was initially developed when considering the problem of so-called 'free riders' in the tragedy of the commons, a larger-scale version of the prisoner's dilemma.
In agent who draws benefits from a co-operative society without contributing.
In a one-to-one situation, free riding can easily be discouraged by a tit-for-tat strategy.
But in a larger-scale society, where contributions and benefits are pooled and shared, they can be incredibly difficult to shake off.
Imagine an elementary society of co-operative organisms.
Co-operative agents interact with each other, each contributing resources and each drawing on the common good.
Now imagine a reciprocal arrangements with them.
Then, the canonical free rider response is to evolve a more convincing disguise, fooling co-operators into co-operating after all.
This can lead to an evolutionary arms races, with ever-more-sophisticated disguises and ever-more-sophisticated detectors.
In this evolutionary arms race, how best might one convince comrades that one "really is" a genuine co-operator, not a free rider in disguise?
One answer is by "actually making oneself" a genuine co-operator, by erecting psychological barriers to breaking promises, and by advertising this fact to everyone else.
In other words, a good solution is for organisms to evolve things that everyone knows will force them to be co-operators - and to make it obvious that they've evolved these things.
So evolution will produce organisms who are sincerely moral and who wear their hearts on their sleeves; in short, evolution will give rise to the phenomenon of conscience.
This theory, combined with ideas of kin selection and the one-to-one sharing of benefits, may explain how a blind process can produce a genuinely non-cynical form of altruism that gives rise to the human conscience.
Critics of such technical game theory analysis point out that it appears to forget that human beings are rational and emotional.
To presume an analysis of human behaviour without including human rationale or emotion is necessarily unrealistically narrow, and treats human beings as if they are mere machines, sometimes called Homo economicus.
Another objection is that often people donate anonymously, so that it is impossible to determine if they really did the altruistic act.
Beginning with an understanding that rational human beings benefit from living in a benign universe, logically it follows that particular human beings may gain substantial emotional satisfaction from acts which they perceive to make the world a better place.
Though it might seem obvious that altruism is central to the teachings of Jesus, one important and influential strand of Christianity would qualify this.
Altruism is essential to the Sikh religion.
In the late 1600's, Guru Gobind Singh Ji (the tenth guru in Sikhism), was in war with the Moghul rulers to protect the people of different faiths, when a fellow Sikh, Bhai Kanhaiya, attended the troops of the enemy.
He gave water to the injured, which revived their strength.
Some of them began to fight again and seemed to cause problems to the Sikh warriors.
Sikh soldiers brought Bhai Kanhaiya before the Guru, and complained of his action that they considered counterproductive to their hard work in the battle filed.
It was under the tutelage of the Guru that Bhai Kanhaiya subsequently founded a volunteer corps for altruism.
This volunteer corps till to date is engaged in doing good to others and trains new volunteering recruits for doing the same.
Longevity is determined by many factors, freedom from disease and stress are two such factors.
The altruists were certainly observed to live calm and tranquil lives.
For Sikhs, altruism was made an act of faith by their founders.
The problem arises from an analysis of the Thomistic philosophers.
Many of Ang Lee's films have focused on the interactions between modernity and tradition.
He is the first Asian director to do so.
Ang Lee was born in the town of Nationalists' defeat in the Chinese Civil War in 1949.
Lee's father, a native of Jiangxi Province in southern China, imbued his children with studying Chinese culture and art, especially calligraphy.
Lee studied in the prestigious National Tainan First Senior High School where his father was a former principal.
He was expected to pass the annual Joint College/University Entrance Examination, the only route to a university education in Taiwan.
After finishing the mandatory military service, Lee went to the U.S. in 1979 to study at the MFA.
Lee's NYU thesis drew attention from the molecular biologist, was the sole breadwinner for the family of four.
Lee's first two movies were based on stories of Taiwanese Americans, and both were filmed in the US.
In 1995, Hsu invited Lee to return to Taiwan to make "Eat Drink Man Woman", a film that depicts traditional values, modern relationships, and family conflicts in Taipei.
The film was once again a box office hit and was critically acclaimed.
The movie was a disappointment amongst both critics and audiences.
After the setback, Lee considered retiring early, but his father encouraged him to continue making movies.
In spite of the director's removal from the subject at hand, "Brokeback Mountain" showcased Lee's skills in probing depths of the human heart.
After "Brokeback Mountain", Lee returned to a Chinese topic.
His next film is "Lust, Caution", which is adapted from a short novel by a Chinese author Eileen Chang.
The story was written in 1950 loosely based on an actual event that took place in 1939-1940 in Japanese occupied-Shanghai, China, during World War II.
Similar to "Brokeback Mountain", Ang Lee adapted and expanded a short, simple story into a featured film in a way that allows individual figures to develop sophisticated layers of reserved emotions, without being sidetracked by complicated plots or overstuffed materials.
Lee lives in Larchmont, New York, with his wife, Jane Lin, a microbiologist, whom he married in 1983, and their younger son, Mason Lee (born 1990), a student at Mamaroneck High School.
Chinese Title!
Oscar nominations!
She was an uncompromising advocate of rational individualism and laissez-faire capitalism, and vociferously opposed socialism, altruism, and other contemporary philosophical trends.
Her influential and often controversial ideas have attracted both enthusiastic admirers and scathing denunciation.
Rand's writing (both fiction and non-fiction) emphasizes the philosophic concepts of objective reality in metaphysics, reason in epistemology, and rational egoism in ethics.
In politics she was a proponent of laissez-faire capitalism and a staunch defender of individual rights, believing that the sole function of a proper government is protection of individual rights (including property rights).
Rand was born in Pale.
From an early age, Alisa displayed an interest in literature and film.
Rand continued to write short stories and screenplays.
She entered the State Institute for Cinema Arts in 1924 to study screenwriting; in late 1925, however, she was granted a visa to visit American relatives.
Biographical researcher Drs.
They also note a hypothesis about a Finnish origin of Ayn.
Aino Kallas and her typewriter (Sperry-Rand).
Kalevala name Aino (the one and only) and Ayn is thus pronounced Ein (eye + n).
Her first literary success came with the sale of her screenplay "Red Pawn" in 1932 to Broadway.
The play was a courtroom drama in which a jury chosen from the audience decided the verdict, leading to one of two possible endings.
United States and was first published in England in 1938.
In the sixty years since it was published, Rand's novel has sold six million copies, and continues to sell about 100,000 copies per year.
Following the success of "The Fountainhead", Rand wrote screenplays for two movies, "Love Letters" and "You Came Along".
Rand's most extensive statement of Objectivism in any of her works of fiction.
The novel, which includes elements of mystery and science fiction, deals with other diverse issues as wide-ranging as sex, music, medicine, politics, philosophy, industry, and human ability.
Rand was deeply opposed to the philosophy of Immanuel Kant.
Their divergence is greatest in metaphysics and epistemology, particularly with regard to Kant's analytic-synthetic dichotomy, rather than the ethics of Kant's well known categorical imperative (her critique of Kant's ethics is directly rooted in Kant's metaphysics and epistemology).
Rand and Kant had significantly different theories of concepts, identity, and consciousness: In Objectivist epistemology, reason is the highest virtue, and reason and logic can be used to attain a contextual knowledge of objective reality.
In 1950 Rand moved to 120 East 34th Street in Objectivist movement with this group to promote her philosophy.
After several years, Rand's close relationship with the much younger Branden turned into a romantic affair, with the consent of their spouses.
They are typically nomads.
Their culture is primitive, and they resent Israel because it's the sole beachhead of modern science and civilization on their continent.
Rand is considered one of the three founding mothers (along with Rose Wilder Lane and Isabel Paterson) of modern American libertarianism, although she rejected Libertarianism and the Libertarian movement.
Rand's views on gender roles have created some controversy.
Rand's theory of sex is implied by her broader ethical and psychological theories.
Far from being a debasing animal instinct, she believed that sex is the highest celebration of our greatest values.
Sex is a physical response to intellectual and spiritual values &ndash; a mechanism for giving concrete expression to values that could otherwise only be experienced in the abstract.
In a Playboy magazine interview, Rand stated that women are not psychologically suited to be President and strongly opposed the modern feminist movement, despite supporting some of its goals.
Rand defended the right of businesses to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation, race, or any other criteria.
Rand argued that no one's rights are violated by a private individual's or organization's refusal to deal with him, even if the reason is irrational.
Rand supported, in principle, the right to give charity but opposed the notion that it was a moral duty, and she did not consider it a major virtue.
She opposed all charity and social programs by the government.
According to Cathy Young, her characterization of charity in her fiction was chiefly negative.
Rand underwent surgery for lung cancer in 1974, and conflicts continued in the wake of the break with Branden and the subsequent collapse of the NBI.
Rand's funeral was attended by some of her prominent followers, including Alan Greenspan.
A six-foot floral arrangement in the shape of a dollar sign was placed near her casket.
Rand's books continue to be widely sold and read, with more than 22 million copies sold (as of 2005), and 500,000 more being sold each year.
Rand and Objectivism are less well known outside The University of Texas at Austin, Ashland University in Ohio, and the University of Pittsburgh.
At the University of Pittsburgh, professors James Lennox and Allan Gotthelf head the research.
Both scholars are renowned for their illuminations of Aristotle's writings.
Duke University's professor Gary Hull is a member of the Ayn Rand Institute and has lectured courses incorporating Objectivist literature and discussion.
Professor Allan Gotthelf also points to certain modern trends in academic philosophy which make philosophers more receptive to Objectivist ideas.
Chief among them are the notions of essence and concept as epistemological developments in virtue theory ethics, and current projects in normative philosophies of science and logic.
Following Rand's death, continued conflict within the Objectivist movement led to establishment of independent organizations claiming to be her intellectual heirs.
Numerous prominent individuals have acknowledged that Rand greatly influenced their lives, including: Tara Smith, John Stossel, Linda & Morris Tannehill, Margaret Thatcher, Clarence Thomas, Vince Vaughn, Jimmy Wales, and many others.
She appears on a 33 cent U.S. postage stamp, which debuted 22 April 1999, in New York City.
Rand's work has been mostly ignored by the academic philosophers of the English-speaking world.
Few leading research universities consider Rand or Objectivism to be an important philosophical specialty or research area.
Many adherents and practitioners of continental philosophy criticize her celebration of self-interest, so there has similarly been little focus on her work in this movement.
However, since her death, there has been an increase in academic structures open to study of Ayn Rand's work.
Ayn Rand Society, founded in 1987, is affiliated with the American Philosophical Association, and has been active in sponsoring seminars.
It is a scholarly, peer reviewed journal dedicated to the study of Ayn Rand - principally her philosophic work.
It is published twice yearly.
The stated editorial position is to remain unaligned with any advocacy group, institution or person.
Objectivists and those influenced by Rand, we are especially interested in publishing scholars who work in traditions outside of Objectivism--including those who are critical of Rand's thought.
In a 1999 interview in the "Chronicle of Higher Education," Rand scholar Chris Matthew Sciabarra said, "I know they laugh at Rand," while also noting a growing interest in her work in the academic community.
In 2006, Tara Smith, a philosophy professor at the University of Texas at Austin.
Rand's novels, when they were first published, "received almost unanimously terrible reviews" and were derided by some critics as long and melodramatic.
Many of these, including her "magnum opus," "Atlas Shrugged," became bestsellers due largely to word of mouth.
Scholars of English and American literature have largely ignored her work, although Rand has received some positive reviews from the literary establishment.
The most famous review of "Atlas Shrugged" was written by the conservative author Whittaker Chambers and appeared in "National Review" in 1957.
It was unrelentingly scathing.
The films were successful, and the public easily realized that they were as much against Fascism as Communism.
These films were re-edited into a new version which was approved by Rand and re-released as "We the Living" in 1986.
A writer's strike.
Who Is Ayn Rand?
French mathematician, currently Professor at the College de France, IHES and Vanderbilt University.
Connes has applied his work in areas of mathematics and theoretical physics, including number theory, differential geometry and particle physics.
Connes was awarded the US National Academy of Sciences.
Born "Joseph Aloysius Dwan" in 1917 he was the founding president of the East Coast chapter of the Motion Picture Directors Association.
Allan Dwan became a true innovator in the motion picture industry.
Over his long and successful career spanning over fifty years, he directed over 400 motion pictures, many of them highly acclaimed, such as the 1949 box office smash, "Sands of Iwo Jima".
His last movie was in 1961.
Dwan is one of the directors who spanned the silent to sound era.
Most of the silent movies he directed are lost due to poor preservation.
He died in Los Angeles at the age of ninety-six, and is interred in the San Fernando Mission Cemetery, Mission Hills, California.
Allan Dwan has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6263 Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood.
But this proved unsustainable and growth collapsed to a paltry 9.7% in the turbulent Eighties.
Failure of timely reforms by successive governments caused the current GDP per capita to shrink by 28% in the Nineties.
For purchasing power parity comparisons, the US Dollar is exchanged at 70.01 Algerian Dinars only (updated May 24, 2007).
The government has announced plans to sell off state enterprises: sales of a national cement factory and steel plant have been completed and other industries are up for offer.
In 2001, Algeria signed an Association Agreement with the European Union; it has started accession negotiations for entry into the World Trade Organization.
Since Roman times Algeria has been noted for the fertility of its soil.
A considerable amount of Civil War, but the industry declined afterwards.
In the early years of the 20th century efforts to extend the cultivation of the plant were renewed.
A small amount of cotton is also grown in the southern oases.
Large quantities of crin vegetal (vegetable horse-hair) an excellent fibre, are made from the leaves of the dwarf palm.
The olive (both for its fruit and Petroleum) and tobacco are cultivated with great success.
Algeria also exports figs, cork.
It is the largest oat market in Africa.
Throughout Algeria the soil favours the growth of vines.
The growing of vines was undertaken early by the colonists, but it was not until vineyards in France were attacked by phylloxera that the export of wine from Algeria became significant.
In 1883, despite precautionary measures, Algerian vineyards were also attacked but in the meantime the quality of their wines had been proved.
The Algerian body responsible for wine cultivation is called the "National Office of Marketing of Wine Products" (ONCV).
Fishing is a flourishing but minor industry.
Fish caught are principally fisheries are found along the coast from Bona to Tunis.
Algeria is rich in minerals; the country has many iron, mercury mines.
The most productive are those of iron and zinc.
Lignite is found in Algiers; immense phosphate beds were discovered near Tebessa in 1891, yielding 313,500 tons in 1905.
Phosphate beds are also worked near Setif, Guelma and Ain Beida.
There are more than 300 quarries which produce, amongst other stones, onyx and beautiful white and red marbles.
Algerian onyx from Ain Tekbalet was used by the Romans, and many ancient quarries have been found near Kleber, some being certainly those from which the long-lost Numidian marbles were taken.
Salt is collected on the margins of the chotts.
By far Algeria's most significant exports, financially, are British imports consist chiefly of coal, cotton fabrics and machinery.
Algeria trades most extensively with France and Italy, in terms of both imports and exports, but also trades with the United States and Spain.
If you see correctly, it's actucally 102.000 billion.
You missed out on the decimal point.
Why is it under Nominal GDP the total reads 102000 billion?
I believe that's a bit high.
Also, opening sentence for the education section needs to be reworded, it's vague to the extent of having no meaning.
However, I took your advice in consideration and corrected my text to prevent you to erase it again.
I must recall you that many Algerians or French of Algerian origin consider the separation between the two country, in part made by America, as the main reason of actual misery in both.
The mutual influence on each other remains and orientalists are still a part of algerian culture.
French language is rare in Algeria?
Problem is the map.
Does anybody want to redo the map?
Or shall we just remove it?
Since we are on this topic, let me also remnind you that you are in Africa.
Aside from all of these other groups that you people mention, you have yet to mention the one group that is in your blood too!
Those people are the native, truly from Africa, not invaders, commonly referred to as black Africans.
I know that the French and others have convinced you that you are some non-black and non-European, but white people, that blackness is there too!
Now I can say that in the north, there are some very white people there.
There are also those who have a lot of white in then as far as facial features and straight hair.
The hair gets blondish like many mulatto types, Ricky Martin style.
This is a result of 1,000's of year of mixing.
I thought the history section was too anti-French, and that it failed to acknowledge that most Algerians chose not become French citizens for religious reasons, and that the population boom started under the French colonial rule, due to the introduction of modern medicines.
Sepharadic jews became french citizens by acknowledging the civilian law.
On another topic, where does the 1.5 million deads come from?
Though the Sahara has never been a country, as when spain left in 1975, it was immediately occupied by Moroccan Forces.
In that sense the saharawis view the situation as an occupation by Morocco, and hence they dont want independence, but for the Moroccan army to leave their homeland.
I acknowledge that history is written by the victors and there is very little chance that the Saharawis will see justice i.e. the right to self determination through a referendum, which has been consistently blocked at the UN by Morocco and its main ally the US.
In fact, having the referendum is Polisario's oficial position for quite a few years and though they have weapons, they are not an active armed / terrorist group.
The article says "literacy plummeted" and gives a reference.
At a minimum, the reference is incomplete.
It would help to be able to check that fact exactly.
It's strong enough of a statement to warrant a better reference.
I know this is a bith of topic,but does anyone know an english page,where i can find listings of show of Cannal Algerie.
There was an anime i watched,whose name id like to know.
The bad writing on this page is a disaster and a disgrace.
We cannot ask our students to consult this page if you cannot be bothered to write it in correct English.
The section from Ottoman to postcolonial rule in the History section is the worst offender -- a disastrous jumble of nonsensical fragments.
If English is not your mother tongue, or you have not bothered to learn correctly how to write it (or consult a competent translator), please refrain from posting on this site.
There is French Wikipedia or Arabic Wikipedia or German Wikipedia, or any number of other choices.
This is not your private playground for incoherent political ranting in incompetent pseudo-English.
Someone whose English is extremely bad majorly corrupted the history section discussing the French conquest.
It looks bad enough to be a machine translation, actually.
I put the old text from November 6 or so back in.
Algeria was brought into the Ottoman Empire by French invaded Algiers in 1830, Algerians were exterminated as explained by Olivier Le Cour Grandmaison.
Contrary to Morocco and Tunisia, the conquest of Algeria was long and particularly violent since it resulted in the disappearance of about a third of the Algerian population.
The French Army subjected village after village, whereas it was enough to sign some agreements to impose a protectorate on Morocco and for Tunisia but it should be specified that what characterizes the colonization of Algeria and holds place of characteristic is that it acts of a colony of settlement.
In 1827, the dey of Algiers still discovers a fact much more serious, at the end is Regency in Calle, France had the concession of a commercial warehouse.
The French government, by the voice of its Deval representative, had promised to the dey that the warehouse would not be strengthened - it was a site to make trade, but anything more - but France had strengthened it.
Not obtaining explanations on behalf of the in writing solicited French government, April 30, 1827 the dey asked some the French Consul verbally.
Being unaware of his requests openly, not condescending to answer, the consul took the thing top, then furious of such a contempt, the dey carried, insulted, and finally gave to the "representative of France" a blow of his drive out-fly.
However, intense resistance from such muslim personalities as Fatma N'Soumer made for a slow conquest of Algeria, not technically completed until the early 1900s when the last Tuareg were conquered.
Before the putsch of December 2, 1851 in France, even though the extension of colonisation was made difficult due to the maintain of intagibillity of individual property and banning transactions over tribe's territory, 131 000 Europeans including 66 000 French were installed in Algeria.
Before the putsch of 2 December, 1851 in France, 131,000 Europeans (including 66,000 French) were installed in Algeria.
This was despite that fact that the extension of colonisation was made difficult due to the maintaince of intagibillity of individual property and the banning of transactions over tribal territory.
You can use this section to discuss possible resolution of the problem and achieve consensus for action.
Ok Let's count them, let's count Chaoui vs. kabyle number logically.
I've read the supposed source (*) of this allegation and I find no mention of it.
That's why it's not possible to have any certitude about this.
Moreover, it does say that "thyphus and famine" were also a reason of the mortality (between 1866 and 1872 anyway).
Why has the section on French colonization been deleted?
Y chromosomes are passed exclusively through the paternal line.
Bosch et al.
Arabic-speaking and Berber-speaking populations in North Africa, which they take to support the interpretation of the Arabization and Islamization of northwestern Africa, starting with word-borrowing during the 7th century A.D. and through State Arabic Language Officialisation post independence in 1962, as cultural phenomena without extensive genetic replacement.
According to this study the historical origins of the NW African Y-chromosome pool may be summarized as follows: 75% NW African Upper Paleolithic (M78, M35, and M81), 13% Neolithic (J1-M267 and J2-M172), 4% historic European gene flow and 8% recent sub-Saharan African.
Archaeology The Neolithic Capsian culture appeared in North Africa around 9,500 BC and lasted until possibly 2700 BC.
Linguists and population geneticists alike have identified this culture as a probable period for the spread of an Afro-Asiatic language (ancestral to the modern Berber languages) to the area.
The origins of the Capsian culture, however, are archeologically unclear.
M paleolithique et la on nous dit que la culture amazigh est une culture neolithique qui a vu le jour en periode neolithique alors soit les populations originelles paleolithiques ont ete afro-asiatiquophonise linguistiquement soit cette culture caspienne n'est pas afro-asiatique?
French is equally used as an administrative language though not on an official basis.
Algerian Arabic, an Arabic vernacular is the most common native language.
Algeria is a member of the Constitutionally, Algeria is defined as an Islamic, Arab, and Amazigh (Berber) country.
Algeria has been inhabited by Carthaginians began establishing settlements along the coast.
The Berbers seized the opportunity offered by the Punic Wars to become independent of Carthage, and Berber kingdoms began to emerge, most notably Numidia.
In 200 BC, however, they were once again taken over, this time by the Roman Republic.
After some decades of resistance under the leadership of some Berber leaders such as Kusayla and Kahina, the Berbers adopted Islam "en masse", but almost immediately expelled the Banu Musa caliphate from Algeria, establishing an Ibadi state under the Rustamids.
Having converted the Kutama of Kabylie to its cause, the Shia Fatimids overthrew the Rustamids, and conquered Egypt.
They left Algeria and Tunisia to their Zirid vassals; when the latter rebelled and adopted Sunnism, they sent in a populous Arab tribe, the Banu Hilal to weaken, initiating the Arabization of the countryside.
The Almoravids and Almohads, Berber dynasties from the west founded by religious reformers, brought a period of relative peace and development; however, with the Almohads' collapse, Algeria became a battleground for their three successor states, the Algerian Zayyanids, Tunisian Hafsids, and Moroccan Marinids.
In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, the Spanish Empire started attacking and subsuming many coastal bobs.
Algeria was brought into the slavery.
Raids by Barbary pirates on Western Europe did not cease until 1816, when a Royal Navy raid, assisted by six Dutch vessels, destroyed the port of Algiers and its fleet of Barbary ships.
On the pretext of a slight to their consul, the French pursued a policy of extermination against the Algerians.
The Fatma N'Soumer.
Indeed the conquest was not technically complete until the early 1900s when the last Tuareg were conquered.
Meanwhile, however, the French made Algeria an integral part of France, a status that would end only with the collapse of the Fourth Republic in 1958.
Tens of thousands of settlers from France, Italy, Spain, and Malta moved in to farm the Algerian coastal plain and occupy significant parts of Algeria's cities.
These settlers benefited from the French government's confiscation of communally held land, and the application of modern agriculture techniques that increased the amount of arable land.
Algeria's social fabric suffered during the occupation: literacy plummeted, while land confiscation uprooted much of the population.
In contrast, the vast majority of Muslim Algerians (even veterans of the French army) received neither French citizenship nor the right to vote.
In 1954, the Pieds-Noirs", as well as 81,000 "Harkis" (pro-French Algerians serving in the French Army).
As feared, there were widespread reprisals against those who remained in Algeria.
It is estimated that somewhere between 50,000 and 150,000 Harkis and their dependents were killed by the FLN or by lynch mobs in Algeria, sometimes in circumstances of extreme cruelty.
Algeria's first president was the FLN leader collectivised, and a massive industrialization drive launched.
Oil extraction facilities were nationalized.
This was especially beneficial to the leadership after the 1973 oil crisis.
However, the Algerian economy became increasingly dependent on oil which led to hardship when the price collapsed in during the 1980's Oil Glut.
Within Algeria, dissent was rarely tolerated, and the state's control over the media and the outlawing of political parties, other than the FLN, was cemented in the repressive constitution of 1976.
The modernization drive brought considerable agricultural employment was substantially reduced.
Education was extended nationwide, raising the literacy rate from less than 10% to over 60%.
There was a dramatic increase in the fertility rate to 7-8 children per mother.
Therefore by 1980, there was a very youthful population and a universities and on the streets during the 1980s.
Mass protests from both camps in Autumn 1988 forced Bendjedid to concede the end of one-party rule.
Elections were planned to happen in 1991.
In December 1991, the first round of the country's first multi-party elections.
The military then intervened and cancelled the second round, forced then-president Bendjedid to resign, and banned all political parties based on religion (including the Islamic Salvation Front).
The ensuing conflict engulfed Algeria in the violent Algerian Civil War.
More than 160,000 people were killed between 17 January 1992 and June 2002.
Most of the deaths were between militants and government troops, but a great number of civilians were also killed.
The question of who was responsible for these deaths was controversial at the time amongst academic observers; many were claimed by the Armed Islamic Group.
Elections resumed in 1995, and after 1998, the war waned.
On 27 April 1999, after a series of short-term leaders representing the military, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the current president, was elected.
The issue of Berber language and identity increased in significance, particularly after the extensive Kabyle protests of 2001 and the near-total boycott of local elections in Kabylie.
The government responded with concessions including naming of Tamazight (Berber) as a national language and teaching it in schools.
Much of Algeria is now recovering and developing into an agricultural land.
Recent overseas investment in Algeria has increased.
Most of the coastal area is hilly, sometimes even mountainous, and there are a few natural harbours.
The area just south of the coast, known as the Atlas mountain range and the Sahara desert.
Northern Algeria is in the temperate zone and has a mild, Mediterranean climate.
It lies within approximately the same latitudes as southern California and has somewhat similar climatic conditions.
Its broken topography, however, provides sharp local contrasts in both prevailing temperatures and incidence of rainfall.
Year-to-year variations in climatic conditions are also common.
In the Tell.
In Algeria, only a relatively small corner of the torrid Sahara lies across the Tropic of Cancer in the torrid zone.
In this region even in winter, midday desert temperatures can be very hot.
After sunset, however, the clear, dry air permits rapid loss of heat, and the nights are cool to chilly.
Enormous daily ranges in temperature are recorded.
Rainfall is fairly abundant along the coastal part of the Precipitation is heaviest in the northern part of eastern Algeria, where it reaches as much as 1000 mm in some years.
Farther inland, the rainfall is less plentiful.
Prevailing winds that are easterly and north-easterly in summer change to westerly and northerly in winter and carry with them a general increase in precipitation from September through December, a decrease in the late winter and spring months, and a near absence of rainfall during the summer months.
The head of state is the Prime Minister who is also the head of government.
The Prime Minister appoints the Council of Ministers.
Under the 1976 constitution (as modified 1979, and amended in 1988, 1989, and 1996) Algeria is a multi-party state.
All parties must be approved by the Ministry of the Interior.
To date, Algeria has had more than 40 legal political parties.
Tensions between Algeria and Morocco in relation with the Western Sahara conflict, have put great obstacles in the way of tightening the Maghreb Arab Union, nominally established in 1989 but with little practical weight, with its coastal neighbors.
Algeria is currently divided into 48 seat, which is mostly also the largest city.
According to the Algerian constitution, a province is "a territorial collectivity enjoying some economic freedom".
This person is chosen by the Algerian President to handle the PPA's decisions.
The administrative divisions have changed several times since independence.
When introducing new provinces, the numbers of old provinces are kept, hence the non-alphabetical order.
The fossil fuels energy sector is the backbone of Algeria's economy, accounting for roughly 60% of budget revenues, 30% of GDP, and over 95% of export earnings.
The country ranks fourteenth in petroleum reserves, containing 11.8 billion barrels of proven oil reserves with estimates suggesting that the actual amount is even more.
Since Roman times Algeria has been noted for the fertility of its soil.
Algerians are employed in the agricultural sector.
A considerable amount of horsehair, an excellent fiber, are made from the leaves of the dwarf palm.
The olive (both for its fruit and oil) and tobacco are cultivated with great success.
Algeria is known for Bertolli's olive oil spread, although the spread has an Italian background.
The current population of Algeria is 32,930,091 (July 2006 est.).
About 70% of Algerians live in the northern, coastal area; the minority who inhabit the fertility rate in the Greater Middle East after Cyprus, Tunisia, and Turkey.
Ninety-nine percent of the population is classified ethnically as Jewish community of Algeria, which once constituted 2% of the total population, has substantially decreased due to emigration, mostly to France and Israel.
Europeans account for less than 1% of the population, inhabitating almost exclusively the largest metropolitan areas.
Housing and medicine continue to be pressing problems in Algeria.
Failing infrastructure and the continued influx of people from rural to urban areas has overtaxed both systems.
According to the UNDP, Algeria has one of the world's highest per housing unit occupancy rates for housing, and government officials have publicly stated that the country has an immediate shortfall of 1.5 million housing units.
Most Algerians are Berber, by language or identity, but almost all Algerians are Berber in origin.
Today, the Arab-Berber issue is often a case of self-identification or identification through language and culture, rather than a racial or ethnic distinction.
The Berber people are divided into several ethnic groups, Kabyle in the mountainous north-central area, Chaoui in the eastern Atlas Mountains, Mozabites in the M'zab valley, and Tuareg in the far south.
Turkish Algerians represent 5% of the population and are living mainly in the big cities.
Out of the total population 70% of 15 year olds and above are literate.
The figure is higher for males standing at 78.8% whilst for females it is 61%.
The nine-year school system is compulsory, and is attended by most children.
It begins at age 6 and continues until age 15.
Algeria has ten universities and a number of technical colleges, with a population of approximately 350,000 students attending college or university.
Modern Algerian literature, split between Arabic and French, has been strongly influenced by the country's recent history.
Famous novelists of the twentieth century include Mohammed Dib, Albert Camus, and Kateb Yacine, while Assia Djebar is widely translated.
Important novelists of the 1980s included Rachid Mimouni, later vice-president of Amnesty International, and Tahar Djaout, murdered by an Islamist group in 1993 for his secularist views.
As early as Roman times, Apuleius, born in Mdaourouch, was native to what would become Algeria.
Algerian culture has been strongly influenced by Islam, the main religion.
The works of the Sanusi family in pre-colonial times, and of Emir Abdelkader and Sheikh Ben Badis in colonial times, are widely noted.
The Andalusi music, brought from Al-Andalus by Morisco refugees, is preserved in many older coastal towns.
In painting, Mohammed Khadda and M'Hamed Issiakhem have been notable in recent years.
Most Algerians speak Algerian Arabic.
The Arabic remains Algeria's only official language, although Tamazight has recently been recognized as a national language alongside it.
The language issue is politically sensitive, particularly for the Berber colonization had left both the state bureaucracy and much of the educated upper class completely Francophone, as well as being motivated by the Arab nationalism promoted by successive Algerian governments.
It is the direct successor of the occupation during the Algerian War of Independence (1954-62).
The People's National Army consists of 127,500 members, with some 100,000 reservists.
The army is under the control of the president, who also is minister of National Defense (current president is Abdelaziz Bouteflika).
Defense expenditures accounted for some $2.67 billion or 3.5% of GDP.
One and a half years of national military service is compulsory for males.
Algeria is a leading military power in North Africa and has its force oriented toward its western (Morocco) and eastern (Libya) borders.
Its primary military supplier has been the former Soviet Union, which has sold various types of sophisticated equipment under military trade agreements, and the People's Republic of China.
Algeria has attempted, in recent years, to diversify its sources of military material.
There are several Roman ruins.
Two landscapes are World Heritage Sites: M'Zab Valley, a limestone valley and Tassili n'Ajjer, a mountain range.
Also the Casbah of Algiers is an important citadel.
Called "the literary leader of the age", despite the fact that he is incapable of writing anything that people actually want to read.
He complains that it is disgraceful that artists are treated as peddlers, and that there should be a law limiting the sales of books to ten thousand copies.
Balph Eubank appears in section 161.
A railroad contractor whom "Dagny Taggart" hires to replace the track on the section 171.
Editorial writer for the magazine "The Future".
He typically bashes business and businessmen, but he never says anything specific in his articles, relying on innuendo, sneers, and denunciation.
He wrote a hatchet job on "Hank Rearden" called "The Octopus".
He is also vocal in support of the section 161.
A wealthy socialite who is having a meaningless sexual affair with "James Taggart" that coincides with the overall meaninglessness of her life.
She regrets having to wake up every morning because she has to face another empty day.
She is deliberately crude in a way that casts ridicule on her high social position.
Betty Pope appears in sections 142 and 161.
An unnamed employee working on the Taggart Comet train.
Brakeman whistling the theme of a concerto.
When she asks him what piece it is from, he says it is Halley's Fifth Concerto.
When Dagny points out that "Richard Halley" only wrote four concertos, Brakeman claims he made a mistake and that he does not recall where he heard the piece.
Later, after Dagny instructs the train crew how to proceed, he asks a co-worker who she is, and learns she is the one who runs Taggart Transcontinental.
It is later discovered that the unknown brakeman is one of the strikers, when Dagny meets him in the valley.
Brakeman appears in sections 112 and 113.
Dime store shopgirl who marries James Taggart after a chance encounter in her store the night the John Galt Line was deemed his greatest success.
She marries him thinking he is the heroic person behind Taggart Transcontinental.
She is horrible to Dagny until the night before she commits suicide, when she confesses to Dagny that when she married Jim, she thought he had all of the Taggart family's positive traits - she thought she was marrying someone like Dagny.
A thuggish personage who's assigned by Wesley Mouch to keep watch over the workings of Taggart Transcontinental, and later assumes control over the company after Dagny Taggart leaves.
He carries a pistol and a lucky rabbit's foot, he dresses in a military uniform.
Dagny Taggart is the John Galt and the Looters that is the readers'.
She holds the title of 'Vice-President in Charge of Operations' of Taggart Transcontinental, under her brother, James Taggart.
However, due to James' incompetence, it is Dagny that is actually responsible for all the workings of the railroad.
Taggart has romantic relationships with the three men of ability: Francisco d'Anconia, Hank Rearden, and John Galt.
Ultimately, she ends up with Galt, on account of the superiority of his talents and qualities.
Nonetheless, she remains on good terms with the other two, despite ending her sexual relationships with them.
Dagny personifies the typical struggle within many capitalists: when to stop trying to change the social policies that impinge on capitalist goals.
Hers is the most unusual perspective in the book, as she has one foot in both camps.
The ultimate lesson taught through Dagny is that reason cannot triumph over the unreasonable until the unreasonable perish.
The middle-aged president of the sections 145 and 146, and is mentioned in section 148.
A contractor who finished the sections 133 and 141.
Special Assistant to the Vice-President in Charge of Operation at Taggart Transcontinental.
He grew up with "Dagny Taggart".
His father and grandfather worked for the Taggarts, and he followed in their footsteps.
He is completely loyal to Dagny and to sections 111, 114, 117, 132, 133, 141, 151, and 152.
One of the central characters in Atlas Shrugged.
Francisco began working on the sly as a teenager in order to learn all he could about business.
While still a student at d'Anconia Copper as assistant superintendent of a mine in Montana, but was quickly promoted to head of the New York office.
He took over d'Anconia Copper at age 23, after the death of his father.
When he was 26, Francisco secretly joined the "Strikers" and began to slowly destroy the d'Anconia empire so the "Looters" could not get it.
He adopted the persona of a worthless playboy, by which he is known to the world, as an effective cover.
Francisco D'Anconia appears or is mentioned in sections 132, 141, 144, 151, and 152 - this last section includes a detailed history of his life.
Fred Kinnan is a labour leader and member of the looter cabal.
Unlike the others, however, Kinnan is straightforward and honest about his purpose.
At the meeting to decide on whether to enact Directive 10-289 (giving government sweeping powers over industry) Kinnan is the only one to openly state the true motivations of himself and his fellow conspirators.
At the end of Galt's 3 hour speech, he expresses admiration for the man, as he says what he means.
Despite this, Kinnan admits that he is one of the people Galt is out to destroy.
One of the central characters in Rearden Steel and the inventor of Rearden Metal, a form of metal stronger than steel.
Scientists in the real world have yet to duplicate this feat.
Gwen Ives is his secretary.
The character of Hank Rearden has two important roles to play in the novel.
First, he is aware that there is something wrong with the world but is unsure of what it is.
Rearden is guided toward an understanding of the solution through his friendship with "Francisco d'Anconia", who does know the secret, and by this mechanism the reader is also prepared to understand the secret when it is revealed explicitly in Galt's Speech.
Second, Rearden is used to illustrate Rand's sections 121, 132, 147, and 161, and is mentioned in sections 114 and 131.
Taggart is an expert influence peddler who is incapable of making decisions on his own.
He relies on his sister "Dagny Taggart" to actually run the railroad, but nonetheless opposes her in almost every endeavor.
In a sense, he is the antithesis of Dagny.
As the novel progresses, the moral philosophy of the Looters is revealed: it is a code of nihilism.
The goal of this code is to not exist, to become a zero.
Taggart struggles to remain unaware that this is his goal.
He maintains his pretence that he wants to live, and becomes horrified whenever his mind starts to grasp the truth about himself.
This contradiction leads to the recurring absurdity of his life: the desire to destroy those on whom his life depends, and the horror that he will succeed at this.
In the final chapters of the novel, he suffers a complete mental breakdown upon realizing that he can no longer deceive himself in this respect.
In the introduction to the 35th anniversary edition, (1991), Leonard Peikoff introduced excerpts from Rand's journals concerning the book.
Among other things, it is disclosed that as originally conceived James Taggart was religious, regularly going to a priest to confess his sins and ask for absolution.
There is no hint of this in the final version as published.
Presumably, however, this "asking for absoultion" was connected with the above-mentioned hiding of Taggart's real goal from himself.
This also implies that the Taggart Family was originally conceived as being of Roman Catholic background, of which also there is little trace left in the published version.
It fits well with the Taggarts' long-standing friendship with the Latin American D'Anconia Family.
James Taggart appears in sections 146 and 148.
The enigmatic John Galt is the male hero of Atlas Shrugged, and typifies the strike, depriving the world of his invaluable invention.
To increase the impact, he persuades each individual of talent whom he considers to share his own ethical creed, to join him on strike, in a secret and secluded hiding place called Galt's Gulch.
The wildly unsupportive wife of "Hank Rearden".
They have been married eight years as the novel begins.
She compares being Rearden's wife with owning the world's most powerful horse.
Since she cannot comfortably ride a horse that goes too fast, she must bridle it down to her level, even if that means it will never reach its full potential and its power will be greviously wasted.
Lillian also serves to illustrate Rand's Theory of sex.
Lillian believes sex is a base animal instinct and that sexual indulgence is a sign of moral weakness.
She is incapable of feeling this kind of desire, which she believes testifies to her moral superiority.
However, according to the theory of sex, Lillian's lack of sexual capacity results from her inability to experience value in herself; she is therefore unable to respond sexually when she experiences value in others.
Lillian tolerates sex with her husband only because she is 'realistic' enough to know he is just a brute who requires satisfaction of his brute instincts.
In sections 121 and 161.
A group of antagonistic characters sometimes referred to as "James Taggart and his friends".
They are similar to the Moochers.
The Looters consist of men and women who use force to obtain value from those who produce it.
They seek to destroy the producers despite the fact that they are dependent upon them.
A wealthy banker who mysteriously disappeared in protest after he was given a court order to loan money to an incompetent applicant.
When the order came down, he liquidated his entire business, made sure that all the account holders received every penny due them, and joined Galt's strike.
Midas Mulligan is responsible for the creation and distribution of the money that is exclusively used in Atlantis, and is the original owner of the land where Atlantis is located.
They seek to destroy the producers despite the fact that they are dependent upon them.
A section 161.
The president of the section 171.
A menial worker for section 133.
He works in the Taggart Terminal.
Twenty years ago he owned a cigarette factory but it went under, and he's been working at his newsstand ever since.
He is a collector of cigarettes, and knows every brand ever made.
He occasionally chats with "Dagny Taggart" when she comes by.
On one occasion, in section 132, after Dagny asks him about his collection, he bemoans the fact that there are no new brands and the old brands are all disappearing.
He examines a cigarette given to Dagny by "Hugh Akston", but it is a new brand that he has never seen before.
It carries the sign of the dollar.
Assistant to the Manager of the Taggart Terminal in sections 112 and 114.
In sections 121, 132, and 2A1.
He lives in his brother's home in Philadelphia and is completely dependent on him.
He believes that the source of his sustenance is evil and would love to see him destroyed.
He has never had a career and spends his time perfunctorily working for various social groups.
He becomes resentful of his brother's charity.
He then requests that he be granted a job from his brother because he should not have to be burdened by the feeling of inadequacy of not earning his own livelihood.
When confronted by his brother on how this job should be a mutually beneficial arrangement, Philip shrugs the argument off as irrelevant and that the job should be entitled to him solely based on his need for money and the fact of familial ties.
Philip Rearden appears in sections 121 and 161.
An enterprising engineer hired by "Dagny Taggart" to reconstruct "John Galt's" motor.
Partway through this process, Quentin withdraws his effort for the same reasons John Galt himself had.
Dagny sets out to meet Quentin in hopes of convincing him to resume his work.
John Galt narrowly gets to him first.
He is now world famous as a pirate.
Ragnar was from Turkey.
Ragnar seizes relief ships that are being sent from the Delaware Bay.
Reportedly, his ship is better than any available in the fleets of the world's navies.
People assume that as a pirate he simply takes the seized goods to himself.
Ludlow as a former famous film star who retired and dropped out of sight.
Such a prolonged and successful piratical career would require a secret haven, probably on the Atlantic Coast of the US.
According to Ayn Rand (verbal report), his name is a tribute to Victor Hugo.
However, there are some inaccuracies.
Dagny Taggart's favorite composer, who mysteriously disappeared after the evening of his greatest triumph.
In section 152.
The prestigious head of the Department of Philosophy at section 161.
People of the mind who go on strike because they do not appreciate being exploited by "the Looters" and demonized by a society who depends on them for its very existence.
The leader of the Strikers is "John Galt".
The "Head of the State," which essentially means that he's the President of the United States, though he's never specifically referred to as such.
This is because countries have been standardized as "People's States" which seem to share a common form of government.
In the introduction to the 35th anniversary edition, (1991), Leonard Peikoff introduced excerpts from Rand's journals concerning the book, which she originally intended to call "The Strike".
Among many other things, the journals reveal some characters which were originally planned to appear in the book and were deleted from the final version.
The quotation from Rand's journals included a passage describing what John Galt represented to each main characters.
Interestingly, Rand successfully did something similar in her very first book, "We the Living".
There, one of the main characters is a Communist, Andrei Taganov, who definitely can be described, in a paraphrase of the above, as "a positive character honestly devoted to the good but practicing consistently the ideology of Marxism".
In other words, a very idealistic and dedicated Communist, who is totally devoted to the Party and is willing to lay down his life for Communism, yet is a sympathetic (and convincing) major character in a book which is as anti-Communist as can be.
Peikoff also mentions that as originally conceived the book was going to have a character named "Stacy Rearden", a sister of "Hank Rearden".
Not much is told of what her role was supposed to be and why she was eventually dropped.
Apparently, she was going to be another parasite like Rearden's brother, mother and wife; presumably, Rand came to the conclusion that three such characters around Rearden sufficiently fulfilled her literary and philosophical purposes.
The theme of "Atlas Shrugged" is the role of the mind in man's existence and, consequently, presentation of the morality of rational self-interest.
The main conflict of the book occurs as the "individuals of the mind" go on strike, refusing to contribute their inventions, art, business leadership, scientific research, or new ideas of any kind to the rest of the world.
Society, they believe, hampers them by interfering with their work and underpays them by confiscating the profits and dignity they have rightfully earned.
The peaceful cohesiveness of the world requires those individuals whose productive work comes from mental effort.
But feeling they have no alternative, they eventually start disappearing from the communities of "looters" and "moochers" who bleed them dry.
The strikers believe that they are crucial to a society that exploits them, and the near-total collapse of civilization triggered by their strike shows them to be correct.
Like the Greek Atlas, individuals rationally and circumspectly seeking their own long-term happiness believe that they hold the world on their shoulders.
The novel's title is an allusion to the Titan, discussing what might happen if those supporting the world suddenly decided to stop doing so.
In the novel, the allusion comes during a conversation between two protagonists, Francisco d'Anconia and Hank Rearden, near the end of part two, chapter three, where Francisco tells Rearden that if he could suggest to Atlas that he do one thing, it would be to shrug.
In the world of "Atlas Shrugged", society stagnated when independent productive achievers began to be socially demonized and even punished for their accomplishments, even though society had been far more healthy and prosperous by allowing, encouraging and rewarding self-reliance and individual achievement.
Independence and personal happiness flourished to the extent that people were free, and achievement was rewarded to the extent that individual ownership of laissez-faire capitalism as the only way to live consistent with his beliefs.
It portrays fascism, socialism and communism &ndash; any form of state intervention in society &ndash; as systemically and fatally flawed.
Rand argues that independence and individual achievement enable society to survive and thrive, and should be embraced.
She is similarly dismissive of faith beyond empirical reason, in a god or higher being, or anything else as an authority over one's own mind.
The book positions itself against religion specifically, often directly within the characters' dialogue.
Galt's Gulch was inspired by Ouray, Colorado.
It was here that Rand found inspiration to complete the novel, though she greatly expanded the small valley to include her many ideas for the story.
Exactly when "Atlas Shrugged" is meant to take place is kept deliberately vague.
In "Atlas Shrugged," all countries outside the US have become, or become during the novel, "People's States".
Most of the action in "Atlas Shrugged" occurs in the United States.
However, there are important events around the world, such as in the People's States of Mexico, Chile, and Argentina, and piracy at sea.
The novel's plot is split into three parts.
The first two parts, and to some extent the last, follow Dagny Taggart, a no-nonsense railroad executive, and her attempt to keep the company alive despite repeated encroachments by a society moving toward collectivism, altruism, and statism.
The leaders and innovators of industry in the world seem to be disappearing, and the apparent decline of civilization is making it more and more difficult for her to sustain her life-long aspirations of running the trans-continental railroad, which has been in her family for several generations.
She deals with other characters who often personify archetypes of what Rand considers the various schools of philosophy for living and working in the world (though they are in most cases often unconscious of it).
Some of these are: Hank Rearden, a self-made businessman of great integrity whose career is hindered by his feelings of obligation toward his wife.
Francisco d'Anconia, Dagny's childhood friend, first love, and king of the copper industry, appears to have become a worthless playboy who is purposely destroying his business.
Dagny's brother, president of the railroad, who seems peripherally aware of the troubles facing the company and the country in general, but who almost always makes the most short term and ultimately self-destructive choice.
As the novel progresses, the myths about the real John Galt, as well as Francisco d'Anconia's actions, increasingly become a reflection of the state of the culture and seem to make more and more sense.
Hank and Dagny begin to experience the futility of their attempts to survive in a society that hates them and those like them for their greatness.
John Galt's speech is the core of "Atlas Shrugged".
In it, Galt explains the philosophy of political ideas.
The speech is very long, spanning 56 pages in one paperback edition (the only interruption occurs after the first paragraph), and appears in the chapter "This is John Galt Speaking" in the third section of the book.
Rand's heroes must continually fight against the "looters" and "moochers" of the society surrounding them.
The looters are those who confiscate others' earnings "at the point of a gun" (figuratively speaking) &mdash;often because they are government officials, and thus their demands are backed by the threat of force.
Some looters are following the policies of the government, such as the officials who confiscate one state's seed grain to feed the starving citizens of another state; others are exploiting those policies, such as the railroad regulator who illegally sells the railroad's supplies on the side.
The common factor is that both use force to take property from the people who produced or earned it, and both are ultimately destructive.
The moochers are those who demand others' earnings because they claim to be needy and unable to earn themselves.
Even as they beg for their help, however, they curse the people who make that help possible, because they hate the talented for having the talent they don't possess.
Although the moochers seem benign at first glance, they are portrayed as more destructive than the looters&mdash;they destroy the productive through guilt and often motivate the legal looting performed by governments.
The entire story of "Atlas Shrugged" can be seen as an answer to the question, what would happen if this sanction were revoked?
When Atlas shrugs, relieving himself of the burden of carrying the world, he is revoking his sanction.
The concept may be original in the thinking of Ayn Rand and is foundational to her moral theory.
She holds that evil is a parasite on the good and can only exist if the good tolerates it.
Throughout "Atlas Shrugged," numerous characters admit that there is something wrong with the world but they cannot put their finger on what it is.
The concept they cannot grasp is the sanction of the victim.
The first person to grasp the concept is John Galt, who vows to stop the motor of the world by getting the creators of the world to withhold their sanction.
We first glimpse the concept in section 121 when Hank Rearden feels he is duty-bound to support his family, despite their hostility towards him.
John Galt and Hank Rearden are from working class backgrounds, while Dagny Taggart and Francisco d'Anconia are from wealthy families.
Among the villains, Fred Kinnan is from a working class background, while James Taggart and Betty Pope are from wealthy families.
In rejecting the traditional altruistic moral code, Rand also rejects the sexual code that, in her view, is the logical implication of altruism.
Rand introduces a theory of values, a physical response to intellectual and spiritual values that gives concrete expression to what could otherwise only be experienced in the abstract.
In "Atlas Shrugged", characters are sexually attracted to those who embody or seem to embody their values, be they higher or lower values by Rand's standards.
Characters who lack clear purpose find sex devoid of meaning.
This is illustrated in the contrasting relationships of John Galt.
The companies in "Atlas Shrugged" are generally divided into two groups: those that are operated by hard working characters who join in John Galt's Movement and those owned by looters and moochers.
The first group are usually given the name of the owner, while companies operated by antagonist characters are given names like United Steel.
For example, Hank Rearden's companies are all named after him; Wyatt Oil after Ellis Wyatt; and Taggart Transcontinental and d'Anconia Copper are named after their founders (and, being family-held, their present owners).
Nielsen Motors, Hammond Cars and Ayers Music Publishing are also presented as competent.
On the other hand, Orren Boyle named his government-dependent, influence-peddling company Associated Steel.
It is commonly noted that in actuality there had never been a US railway company as the one described in the book, maintaining tracks of its own all the way from the East.
By 1957, the date of the book's publication, railways in the USA were facing a decline that had begun in the 1920s.
Passengers were increasingly switching to road transport.
Because the book centers on industrial capitalism, Ayn Rand mentions many technologies throughout the book.
Rearden metal is a fictitious metal alloy invented by Hank Rearden.
It is lighter than traditional steel but stronger, and is to steel what steel was to iron.
It is described as greenish-blue.
Among its ingredients are iron and copper, two metals seldom found together in real-world alloys.
Initially, no one is willing to use Rearden metal because no one wants to stick his neck out and be the first to try it.
Dagny Taggart places an order for Rearden metal when she needs rails to rebuild the dying Rio Norte Line.
John Galt invented a new type of electrical apparatus described in the book as a motor.
This motor is revolutionary because it uses static electricity from the atmosphere as its main source of energy, requiring only a small amount of conventional fuel to run the conversion mechanism.
This approximates a perpetual motion machine of the second kind, a machine which spontaneously converts thermal energy into mechanical work (versus conventional heat engines, which convert thermal energy into mechanical work by transferring thermal energy from one reservoir to another).
The theory is that the power is drawn from the environment (possibly approximating the Casimir effect, though that was extremely obscure and scientifically controversial at the time Atlas Shrugged was written).
The book gives the source as static electricity from the air, and suggests that a new physics was necessary to tap it.
Dagny discovers a discarded prototype of the motor, and it is superficially described in section Part 1, Chapter 9.
In Part 3, Chapter 1, Dagny learns that Galt is using a working version of the motor to generate electricity for Galt's Gulch.
Rand also mentioned technologies that were unavailable at the time, but which have since been invented.
Examples are shale-oil drilling.
It was reviewed shortly after its publication in 1957 by many major newspapers and magazines.
The initial reviews were largely negative, criticizing both the book's literary qualities and its political vision.
Former Ayn Rand associate Nathaniel Branden argues that "Atlas Shrugged" "encourages emotional repression and self-disowning" and that it, along with Rand's other major Objectivist novel, "The Fountainhead", contains contradictory messages.
Though he notes that the book shows that Rand understood the human need for social interaction, Branden claims that "rarely you find the heroes and heroine talking to each other on a simple, human level without launching into philosophical sermons," which he believes is used to increase the reader's self-alienation.
He further questions the psychological impact of the novel, stating that John Galt's claim that contempt and moral condemnation are appropriate responses to wrongdoing clashes with the recommendations of psychologists, who say that this kind of behavior only causes the wrongdoing to repeat itself.
The libertarian Cato Institute held a joint conference with The Atlas Society, an Objectivist organization, to celebrate the fortieth anniversary of the publication of "Atlas Shrugged".
Conservative Associate Justice of the Supreme Court Clarence Thomas cites "Atlas Shrugged" as among his favorite novels, as does neolibertarian Larry Elder.
In an article titled "Celebrity Rand Fans" in the Objectivist magazine "The New Individualist", Robert James Bidinotto traces the novel's growing influence among major Hollywood stars, sports champions, and public figures.
In a three-month online poll The Modern Library's lists, particularly the reader selections, however, have come under heavy scrutiny as so unscientific as to be highly dubious in their representation of actual opinion (see Modern Library).
The C-SPAN television series "American Writers" listed Rand as one of twenty-two surveyed figures of American literature, though primarily mentioning "The Fountainhead" rather than "Atlas Shrugged".
Ayn Rand's book influence has led it to be referenced in various ways.
The video game BioShock pays many homages to Atlas Shrugged; the most obvious of which is the idea that intellectuals should be separated from society in order to free them from people who would inhibit their work.
Since the work of post-colonial oppression and promotion of multiculturalism.
The anthropologist Mediterranean and South Asia.
Anthropology as it emerged among the colonial powers (mentioned above) has generally taken a different path than that in the countries of southern and central Europe (Italy, Greece, and the successors to the Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires).
In the former, the encounter with multiple, distinct cultures, often very different in organization and language from those of Europe, has led to a continuing emphasis on cross-cultural comparison and a receptiveness to certain kinds of cultural relativism.
In the successor states of continental Europe, on the other hand, anthropologists often joined with folklorists and linguists in the nationalist/nation-building enterprise.
Ethnologists in these countries tended to focus on differentiating among local ethnolinguistic groups, documenting local folk culture, and representing the prehistory of the nation through museums and other forms of public education.
In this scheme, Russia occupied a middle position.
On the one hand, it had a large Asian region of highly distinct, pre-industrial, often non-literate peoples, similar to the situation in the Americas; on the other hand, Russia also participated to some degree in the nationalist discourses of Central and Eastern Europe.
After the Revolution of 1917, anthropology in the USSR and later the Soviet Bloc countries were highly shaped by the need to conform to Marxist theories of social evolution.
Neither Tylor nor Frazer, however, were particularly interested in fieldwork, nor were they interested in examining how the cultural elements and institutions fit together.
Towards the turn of the century, a number of anthropologists became dissatisfied with this categorization of cultural elements; historical reconstructions also came to seem increasingly speculative.
Under the influence of several younger scholars, a new approach came to predominate among British anthropologists, concerned with analyzing how societies held together in the present (diachronic or historical analysis), and emphasizing long-term (one to several years) immersion fieldwork.
A decade and a half later, Polish-born anthropology student functionalist interpretation, which examined how social institutions functioned to meet individual needs.
Malinowski and Radcliffe-Brown's influence stemmed from the fact that they, like Boas, actively trained students and aggressively built up institutions that furthered their programmatic ambitions.
This was particularly the case with Radcliffe-Brown, who spread his agenda for "Social Anthropology" by teaching at universities across the British Commonwealth.
From the late 1930s until the postwar period appeared a string of monographs and edited volumes that cemented the paradigm of British Social Anthropology (BSA).
From its beginnings in the early 19th century through the early 20th century, anthropology in the United States was influenced by the presence of Christian missionaries and colonial administrators, seeking to communicate with native peoples or ascertain how to incorporate them, helped gain funding and institutional attention.
Statements of ethnologists (as well as many amateurs, missionaries, and colonial administrators, who were not clearly distinguished from more committed scholars in this era prior to the professionalization of anthropology) often played into political debates around the definitions of humanity and citizenship.
Influenced by the German tradition, Boas argued that the world was full of distinct "cultures," rather than societies whose evolution could be measured by how much or how little "civilization" they had.
He believed that each culture has to be studied in its particularity, and argued that cross-cultural generalizations, like those made in the natural sciences, were not possible.
In doing so, he fought discrimination against immigrants, African Americans, and Native North Americans.
Many American anthropologists adopted his agenda for social reform, and theories of race continue to be popular targets for anthropologists today.
The so-called "Four Field Approach" has its origins in Boasian Anthropology, dividing the discipline in the four crucial and interrelated fields of sociocultural, biological, linguistic, and prehistoric anthropology.
Boas used his positions at Columbia University and the American Museum of Natural History to train and develop multiple generations of students.
His first generation of students included Alfred Kroeber, Robert Lowie, Edward Sapir and Ruth Benedict, all of whom produced richly detailed studies of indigenous North American cultures.
They provided a wealth of details used to attack the theory of a single evolutionary process.
Kroeber and Sapir's focus on Native American languages helped establish linguistics as a truly general science and free it from its historical focus on Indo-European languages.
The publication of AMNH.
Canadian anthropology began, as in other parts of the Colonial world, as ethnological data in the records of travellers and missionaries.
In Canada, missionaries such as Fathers LeClercq, Le Jeune and Sagard, in the 1600s, provide the oldest ethnographic records of native tribes in what was then the Domain of Canada.
True anthropology began with a Government department: the Geological Survey of Canada, and George Mercer Dawson (director in 1895).
Dawson's support for anthropology created impetus for the profession in Canada.
This was expanded upon by Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier, who established a Division of Anthropology within the Geological Survey in 1910.
Anthropologists were recruited from England and the USA, setting the foundation for the unique Canadian style of anthropology.
Early scholars include the brilliant linguist and Boasian, Edward Sapir, also Oxford graduates Marius Barbeau and Diamond Jenness.
Following George Mercer Dawson (of McGill, Montreal) and Franz Boas, Sapir and Barbeau conducted ethnographic research and collected material culture from the peoples of the Northwest Coast, especially Haida.
Jenness is best known for his research in the Arctic among the Copper Inuit.
However, in actuality, they all worked in a variety of areas in Canada, recording traditions and songs, studying languages, and collecting artifacts for the museum.
They essentially had sole responsibility for the development of the profession in Canada from 1910 until 1925 when Sapir left.
The development was slow relative to expansion (due to the colonizing needs) of Britain and the USA.
The first academic position in anthropology at a Canadian university was awarded to Thomas McIlwraith at the University of Toronto in 1925.
The next universities to hire anthropologists, UBC and McGill, did so only in 1947.
The first PhD in anthropology was granted in 1956, with only a few more being granted until the late 1960s.
The 1970s brought a boom in university development and in professional anthropology, and by 1980 about 400 people with doctorates in anthropology were employed in Canada, and many more with a master's degree.
Harry Hawthorne built the department at UBC and set a standard for the use of anthropological research as a guide to public policy in his classic report to the federal government, coauthored by M.-A.
Tremblay, "A Survey of the Contemporary Indians of Canada" (1966, 1967).
Canadian Anthropology is characterized by a combination of Americanist Boasian-influenced interest in Native American tribes and peoples, British Anthropological concerns with social function and process, and Francophone concerns with small, rural and ethnically isolated community studies.
Issues of disparity, continuity and change, political-economy, environment and cultural ecology, and personality, culture and symbolism predominated the discourse from World War I to the Vietnam War era.
Anthropology in France has a less clear genealogy than the British and American traditions, in part because many French writers influential in anthropology have been trained or held faculty positions in sociology, philosophy, or other fields rather than in anthropology.
Most commentators consider reciprocity, and his Huxley lecture on the notion of the person, the first comparative study of notions of person and selfhood cross-culturally.
Unlike in English, in French there's no clear differentiation among ethnology, social anthropology and cultural anthropology.
Throughout the interwar years, French interest in anthropology often dovetailed with wider cultural movements such as primitivism which drew on ethnography for inspiration.
Marcel Griaule and Michel Leiris are examples of people who combined anthropology with the French avant-garde.
Anthropology in Greece and Portugal is much influenced by British anthropology.
In Italy, the development of ethnology and related studies did not received as much attention as other branches of learning.
Before WWII British 'social anthropology' and American 'cultural anthropology' were still distinct traditions.
After the war, enough British and American anthropologists either borrowed ideas and approaches from each other that some began to speak of them collectively as 'sociocultural' anthropology.
In the 1950s and mid-1960s anthropology tended increasingly to model itself after the natural sciences.
Some anthropologists, such as Lloyd Fallers and Clifford Geertz, focused on processes of modernization by which newly independent states could develop.
In the late 1980s and 1990s authors such as industrialized societies.
Principally in the United States, While originating in the US, both the four field approach and debates concerning it have been exported internationally under American academic influence.
A number of subfield or modes of anthropology cut across these divisions.
For example, wildlife or habitat conservation to traditional ecological knowledge and practices.
Biocultural anthropology is a broad term used to describe syntheses of cultural and biological perspectives.
As might be inferred from the above list of subfields, anthropology is a methodologically diverse discipline, incorporating both mixed-methods approaches.
Currently, technological advancements are spurring methodological innovation across anthropology's subfields.
Radiocarbon dating, population genetics, GPS, and digital video- and audio-recording are just a few of the many technologies spurring new developments in anthropological research.
During the first four decades of the 20th century, American cultural anthropology developed under the powerful influence of Franz Boas and his students and their struggle against racial determinism and the ethnocentrism of 19th-century cultural evolutionism.
With the additional impact of the Great Depression and World War II, American anthropology developed a pronounced, obvious left-wing liberal tone by the 1950s.
Professional anthropological bodies often object to the use of anthropology for the benefit of the state.
Their codes of ethics or statements may proscribe anthropologists from giving secret briefings.
More recently, there have been concerns expressed about bioprospecting, along with struggles for self-representation for native peoples and the repatriation of indigenous remains and material culture, with anthropologists often in the lead on these issues.
Other political controversies come from the emphasis in American anthropology on Y-chromosomal DNA, and ancestry-informative markers.
Some authors argue that anthropology originated and developed as the study of the "other cultures", both in terms of time (past societies) and space (non-European/non-Western societies).
It is also argued that other fields of study, like History and Sociology, on the contrary focus disproportionately on the West.
In France, the study of existing contemporary society has been traditionally left to Manchester School of the 1950s.
It has been reported that there has been an "institutional and academic apartheid" between the two sorts of anthropology, the one focusing on the "Other" and the one focusing on the "Self" contemporary society; an apartheid ranging from a "no contact" status to even open conflict.
The countries where this was greater were Germany and Norway, but it was also significant in the 1980s France.
This criticism argument has been raised towards the development of sociobiology in the late 1960s (by cultural anthropologists such as Marshall Sahlins), and towards the "four field holism" of American Anthropology.
Add categories and interwikis to the /doc subpage, not here!
The goals of archaeology vary, and there is debate as to what its aims, and responsibilities are.
In parts of Europe and the Old World, the discipline has its roots in antiquarianism and the study of Latin and Ancient Greek, and so has a natural affinity with the field of history.
In genetic characteristics.
Often archaeology provides the only means to learn of the existence and behaviors of people of the past.
Many thousands of cultures and societies and millions of people have come and gone across the millennia of which there is little or no written record &ndash; no history &ndash; or for which written records may be misrepresentative or incomplete.
Even where written records do exist, they are often incomplete and invariably biased to some extent.
In many societies, literacy was restricted to the libraries and be preserved there for posterity.
Thus, written records tend to reflect the biases, assumptions, cultural values and possibly deceptions of a limited range of individuals, usually only a fraction of the larger population.
Hence, written records cannot be trusted as a sole source.
The material record is closer to a fair representation of society, though it is subject to its own inaccuracies, such as sampling bias and differential preservation.
In addition to their scientific importance, archaeological remains sometimes have political or cultural significance to descendants of the people who produced them, monetary value to collectors, or simply strong aesthetic appeal.
Many people identify archaeology with the recovery of such aesthetic, religious, political, or economic treasures rather than with the reconstruction of past societies.
This view is often espoused in works of popular fiction, such as "The Mummy", and "King Solomon's Mines".
When such unrealistic subjects are treated more seriously, accusations of pseudoscience are invariably levelled at their proponents (see Pseudoarchaeology, below).
However, these endeavours, real and fictional, are not representative of modern archaeology.
The history of archaeology has been one of increasing professionalisation, and the use of an increasing range of techniques, to obtain as much data on the site being examined as possible.
Excavations of ancient monuments and the collection of antiquities have been taking place for thousands of years, but these were mostly for the extraction of valuable or aesthetically pleasing artifacts.
It was only in the 19th century that the systematic study of the past through its physical remains began to be carried out.
This process was continued in the 20th century by such people as Mortimer Wheeler, whose highly disciplined approach to excavation greatly improved the quality of evidence that could be obtained.
During the 20th century, the development of urban archaeology and then rescue archaeology have been important factors, as has the development of archaeological science, which has greatly increased the amount of data that it is possible to obtain.
Another branch, archaeoastronomy, is not as well known as archaeology, but deals with the study of ancient or traditional astronomies in cultural context.
There is no single theory of archaeology, and even definitions are disputed.
Until the mid-20th century, there was a general consensus that archaeology was closely related to both history and anthropology.
The first major phase in the history of archaeological theory in the cultural, or culture, history.
It is best known for its emphasis on historical particularism.
In the 1920's in the American Southwest cultural historical archaeology was intimately tied with the ethnohistorical and early historical records play an important role in articulating the connections between modern people and the archaeological past.
Literary sources can be used in other contexts as well, for example, in the case of Hadrian's Wall.
In the 1960s, a number of primarily American archaeologists, such as Lewis Binford and Kent Flannery, rebelled against the paradigms of cultural history.
They proposed a "New Archaeology", which would be more "scientific" and "anthropological", with hypothesis testing and the scientific method very important parts of what became known as "processual archaeology".
Archaeological theory now borrows from a wide range of influences, including Systems theory.
Survey was not widely practiced in the early days of archaeology.
Cultural historians and prior researchers were usually content with discovering the locations of monumental sites from the local populace, and excavating only the plainly visible features there.
Gordon Willey pioneered the technique of regional settlement pattern survey in 1949 in the Viru Valley of coastal Peru , and survey of all levels became prominent with the rise of processual archaeology some years later.
Survey work has many benefits if performed as a preliminary exercise to, or even in place of, excavation.
It requires relatively little time and expense, because it does not require processing large volumes of soil to search out artifacts.
As with other forms of non-destructive archaeology, survey avoids ethical issues (of particular concern to descendant peoples) associated with destroying a site through excavation.
It is the only way to gather some forms of information, such as settlement patterns and settlement structure.
Survey data are commonly assembled into maps, which may show surface features and/or artifact distribution.
The simplest survey technique is surface survey.
It involves combing an area, usually on foot but sometimes with the use of mechanized transport, to search for features or artifacts visible on the surface.
Surface survey cannot detect sites or features that are completely buried under earth, or overgrown with vegetation.
Surface survey may also include mini-excavation techniques such as augers, corers, and shovel test pits.
Although some archaeologists consider the use of metal detectors to be tantamount to treasure hunting, others deem them an effective tool in archaeological surveying.
Examples of formal archaeological use of metal detectors include musketball distribution analysis on English Civil War battlefields, metal distribution analysis prior to excavation of a nineteenth century ship wreck, and service cable location during evaluation.
Metal detectorists have also contributed to the archaeological record where they have made detailed records of their results and refrained from raising artifacts from their archaeological context.
In the UK, metal detectorists have been solicited for involvement in the Portable Antiquities Scheme.
Regional survey in underwater archaeology uses geophysical or remote sensing devices such as marine magnetometer, side-scan sonar, or sub-bottom sonar.
Modern excavation techniques require that the precise locations of objects and features, known as their phases of activity.
For example, excavation of a site reveals its stratigraphy; if a site was occupied by a succession of distinct cultures, artefacts from more recent cultures will lie above those from more ancient cultures.
Excavation is the most expensive phase of archaeological research.
Also, as a destructive process, it carries hoes to ensure that all features are apparent.
The next task is to form a context of each.
All this information serves as a permanent record of the now-destroyed archaeology and is used in describing and interpreting the site.
Once artifacts and structures have been excavated, or collected from surface surveys, it is necessary to properly study them, to gain as much data as possible.
This process is known as post-excavation analysis, and is normally the most time-consuming part of the archaeological investigation.
It is not uncommon for the final excavation reports on major sites to take years to be published.
At its most basic, the artifacts found are cleaned, catalogued and compared to published collections, in order to classify them deciphered.
These techniques frequently provide information that would not otherwise be known and therefore contribute greatly to the understanding of a site.
As with most music, archaeobotany), geographical or chronological focus (e.g.
Near Eastern archaeology, Medieval archaeology), other thematic concern (e.g.
Early ethnoarchaeological research focused on hunting and gathering or foraging societies.
Ethnoarchaeology continues to be a vibrant component of post-processual and other current archaeological approaches.
The application of CRM in the United Kingdom is not limited to government-funded projects.
In Environment and Heritage Service (Northern Ireland) respectively.
Among the goals of CRM are the identification, preservation, and maintenance of cultural sites on public and private lands, and the removal of culturally valuable materials from areas where they would otherwise be destroyed by human activity, such as proposed construction.
This study involves at least a cursory examination to determine whether or not any significant archaeological sites are present in the area affected by the proposed construction.
If these do exist, time and money must be allotted for their excavation.
If initial survey and/or test excavation indicates the presence of an extraordinarily valuable site, the construction may be prohibited entirely.
United States and Europe where archaeologists from private companies and all levels of government engage in the practice of their discipline.
Cultural resources management has, however, been criticized.
It is not unheard-of for the agency responsible for the construction to simply choose the proposal that asks for the least funding.
Compounding the time pressure is the vetting process of site reports which are required (in the US) to be submitted by CRM firms to the appropriate State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO).
From the SHPO's perspective there is to be no difference between a report submitted by a CRM firm operating under a deadline, and a multi-year academic project.
The end result is that for a Cultural Resource Management archaeologist to be successful, they must be able to produce academic quality documents at a corporate world pace.
The annual ratio of open academic archaeology positions (inclusive of Post-Doc, temporary, and non tenure track appointments) to the annual number of archaeology MA/MSc and PhD students is grossly disproportionate.
This dearth of academic positions causes a predictable excess of well educated individuals who join the ranks of the following year's crop of non-academically employed archaeologists.
Cultural Resource Management, once considered an intellectual backwater for individuals with "strong backs and weak minds" has reaped the benefit of this massive pool of well educated professionals.
This results in CRM offices increasingly staffed by advance degreed individuals with a track record of producing scholarly articles but who have the notches on their trowels to show they have been in the trenches as a shovelbum.
Early archaeology was largely an attempt to uncover spectacular artifacts and features, or to explore vast and mysterious abandoned cities.
Such pursuits continue to fascinate the public.
Books, films, and video games, such as The Mummy, Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Tomb Raider all testify to the public's interest in the discovery aspect of archaeology.
Much thorough and productive research has indeed been conducted in dramatic locales such as data processing.
Archaeology has been portrayed in the mainstream media in sensational ways.
This has its advantages and disadvantages.
Motivated by a desire to halt "looting", curb "pseudoarchaeology", and to secure greater public funding and appreciation for their work, archaeologists are mounting "public-outreach campaigns".
They seek to stop looting by combatting people who illegally take artifacts from protected sites, and by alerting people who live near archaeological sites of the threat of looting.
One audience for archaeologists' work is the public.
They increasingly realize that their work can benefit non-academic and non-archaeological audiences, and that they have a responsibility educate and inform the public about archaeology.
Archaeologists prize local knowledge and often liaise with local historical and archaeological societies, which is one reason why Community archaeology projects are starting to become more common.
Often archaeologists are assisted by the public in the locating of archaeological sites, which professional archaeologists have neither the funding, nor the time to do.
Anyone looking to participate in archaeological opportunities should contact one of these local societies or organizations.
In the United States, examples such as the case of Native Americans and archaeologists which can be summarized as a conflict between a need to remain respectful towards burials sacred sites and the academic benefit from studying them.
For years, American archaeologists dug on Indian burial grounds and other places considered sacred, removing artifacts and human remains to storage facilities for further study.
In some cases human remains were not even thoroughly studied but instead archived rather than reburied.
Furthermore, Western archaeologists' views of the past often differ from those of tribal peoples.
The West views time as linear; for many natives, it is cyclic.
From a Western perspective, the past is long-gone; from a native perspective, disturbing the past can have dire consequences in the present.
As a consequence of this, American Indians attempted to prevent archaeological excavation of sites inhabited by their ancestors, while American archaeologists believed that the advancement of scientific knowledge was a valid reason to continue their studies.
This contradictory situation was addressed by the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA, 1990), which sought to reach a compromise by limiting the right of research institutions to possess human remains.
Due in part to the spirit of postprocessualism, some archaeologists have begun to actively enlist the assistance of indigenous peoples likely to be descended from those under study.
Archaeologists have also been obliged to re-examine what constitutes an archaeological site in view of what native peoples believe to constitute sacred space.
To many native peoples, natural features such as lakes, mountains or even individual trees have cultural significance.
Australian archaeologists especially have explored this issue and attempted to survey these sites in order to give them some protection from being developed.
Such work requires close links and trust between archaeologists and the people they are trying to help and at the same time study.
While this cooperation presents a new set of challenges and hurdles to fieldwork, it has benefits for all parties involved.
Tribal elders cooperating with archaeologists can prevent the excavation of areas of sites that they consider sacred, while the archaeologists gain the elders' aid in interpreting their finds.
There have also been active efforts to recruit aboriginal peoples directly into the archaeological profession.
A new trend in the heated controversy between artifacts to the original descendants.
The ceremony marked the end of a journey spanning thousands of years and many miles.
The remains and artifacts, including beads, tools and weapons, were originally excavated from various sites in the Ottawa Valley, including Morrison and the Allumette Islands.
Now, an inconspicuous rock mound marks the reburial site where close to 90 boxes of various sizes are buried.
Although negotiations were at times tense between the Kitigan Zibi community and museum, they were able to reach agreement.
The two terms are often confused.
With the exception of theoretical agronomy, research in agronomy, more than in any other field, is strongly related to local areas.
It can be considered a science of ecoregions, because it is closely linked to soil properties and climate, which are never exactly the same from one place to another.
Many people think an agricultural production system relying on local weather, soil characteristics, and specific crops has to be studied locally.
Others feel a need to know and understand production systems in as many areas as possible, and the human dimension of interaction with nature.
Agricultural science is seen by some to have began with phytosanitary products.
As the oldest and largest human intervention in nature, the environmental impact of agriculture in general and more recently food production as something essentially different from non-essential economic 'goods'.
In fact, the interaction between these two approaches provide a fertile field for deeper understanding in agricultural science.
New technologies, such as statistical analysis, and precision farming.
Balancing these, as above, are the natural and human sciences of agricultural science that seek to understand the human-nature interactions of traditional agriculture, including interaction of religion and agriculture, and the non-material components of agricultural production systems.
Agriculture sciences seek to feed the world's population while preventing environment.
This requires promoting good management of natural resources and respect for the environment, and increasingly concern for the psychological wellbeing of all concerned in the food production and consumption system.
Economic, environmental, and social aspects of agriculture sciences are subjects of ongoing debate.
Recent crises (such as Avian Flu, mad cow disease and issues such as the use of genetically modified organisms) illustrate the complexity and importance of this debate.
In the network of schools and philosophical systems spanning at least 2500 years.
Alchemy was known as the "spagyric art" after Greek words meaning "to separate" and "to join together".
By no means; vulgar silver and gold are dead, while those of the Philosophers are full of life.
See the separate article on astrology and alchemy for further details.
In Hermeticism it is linked with both astrology and theurgy.
Within the Magnum Opus, was the creation of the Sanctum Moleculae, that is the 'Sacred Masses' that were derived from the Sacrum Particulae, that is the 'Sacred Particles', needed to complete the process of achieving the Magnum Opus.
Up to the 16th Century, alchemy was considered serious science in Europe; for instance, Isaac Newton devoted considerably more of his time and writing to the study of alchemy (see Isaac Newton's occult studies) than he did to either optics or physics, for which he is famous.
Other eminent alchemists of the Western world are Roger Bacon, Saint Thomas Aquinas, Tycho Brahe, Thomas Browne, and Parmigianino.
The decline of alchemy began in the 18th century with the birth of modern chemistry, which provided a more precise and reliable framework for matter transmutations and medicine, within a new grand design of the universe based on rational materialism.
In the first half of the nineteenth century, one established chemist, Baron Carl Reichenbach, worked on concepts similar to the old alchemy, such as the Odic force, but his research did not enter the mainstream of scientific discussion.
Matter transmutation, the old goal of alchemy, enjoyed a moment in the sun in the 20th century when physicists were able to convert platinum atoms into gold atoms via a nuclear reaction.
However, the new gold atoms, being unstable isotopes, lasted for under five seconds before they broke apart.
Alchemical symbolism has been occasionally used in the 20th century by post-modern contexts, such as the New Age movement.
Traditional medicines involve transmutation by alchemy, using pharmacological or combination pharmacological and spiritual techniques.
In herbal medicine similar effects are found.
These processes are actively used to the present day.
In 1919, Ernest Rutherford used artificial disintegration to convert nitrogen into oxygen.
The history of alchemy has become a vigorous academic field.
Alchemy encompasses several philosophical traditions spanning some four millennia and three continents.
Thus, an alchemist was called a 'chemist' in popular speech, and later the suffix "-ry" was added to this to describe the art of the chemist as "chemistry".
A connection has been made between alchemy and Egypt.
It came to Medieval Europe by way of Egypt.
When they invaded Egypt, which they called Khem, in the seventh century, the followers of the moon god discovered that the Egyptians were masters of the art of working in gold.
Alchemy is used in the manga and the anime Fullmetal Alchemist in which the primary characters, two brothers who can use alchemy search for the Philosopher's Stone.
Links that have not been verified WILL BE DELETED.
The source of the state vector and other transmitted information as well as user applications are not considered to be part of the ADS-B system.
Bearing is measured by the position of the rotating radar antenna when it receives a response to its interrogation from the aircraft, and range is measured by the time it takes for the radar to receive the interrogation response.
The antenna beam becomes wider as the aircraft gets further away, making the position information less accurate.
Additionally, detecting changes in aircraft velocity requires several radar sweeps that are spaced several seconds apart.
In contrast, a system using ADS-B creates and listens for periodic position and intent reports from aircraft.
Typical ADS-B aircraft installations use the output of the navigation unit for navigation and cooperative surveillance, introducing a common failure mode that must be accommodated in air traffic surveillance systems.
For example, ADS-A reports are employed in the Future Air Navigation System (FANS) using the Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) as the communication protocol.
The ADS-B link can be used to provide other broadcast services, such as FIS-B and TIS-B.
Another potential aircraft-based broadcast capability is to transmit aircraft measurements of meteorological data.
The ground ADS-B station transmits surveillance target information on the ADS-B data link for unequipped aircraft or aircraft transmitting only on another ADS-B link.
The multilink gateway service is a companion to TIS-B for achieving interoperability in low altitude terminal airspace.
Because aircraft that primarily operate in high altitude airspace are equipped with 1090ES, and aircraft operating primarily in low altitude airspace are equipped with UAT, these aircraft cannot share air-to-air ADS-B data.
In terminal areas, where both types of ADS-B link are in use, ADS-B ground stations use ground-to-air broadcasts to relay ADS-B reports received on one link to aircraft using the other link.
In the US, FIS-B services will be provided over the UAT link in areas that have a ground surveillance infrastructure.
In addition, FLARM is a simple but highly effective low-cost and low-range implementation of an ADS-B concept which has spread rapidly in general Aviation, especially gliders and helicopters.
As a consequence of the low-range and non-certification, there is no ATC downlink.
In 2002, the FAA has announced a dual link decision using 1090 MHz ES and UAT as mediums for the ADS-B system in the United States.
The 1090 MHz extended squitter ADS-B link for air carrier and private/commercial operators of high performance aircraft, and Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) ADS-B link for the typical general aviation user.
With 1090ES, the existing Mode S transponder (TSO C-112 or a stand alone 1090 MHz transmitter) supports a message type known as the extended squitter (ES) message.
It is a periodic message that provides position, velocity, heading, time, and, in the future, intent.
The UAT system is specifically designed for ADS-B operation.
Although 978 MHz resides in the TACAN assigned portion of the aeronautical spectrum, in the US 978 is used for transmission of airborne ADS-B reports and for broadcast of ground-based aeronautical information.
The VDL Mode 4 system could utilize one or more of the existing aeronautical VHF frequencies as the radio frequency physical layer for ADS-B transmissions.
Mode 4 uses a protocol (STDMA) that allows it to be self-organizing, meaning no master ground station is required.
This medium is best used for short message transmissions from a large number of users.
Mode 4 systems are under consideration in Northern Europe.
The ADS-B data link supports a number of airborne and ground applications.
Each application has its own operational concepts, algorithms, procedures, standards, and user training.
A Cockpit Display of Traffic Information (CDTI) is a generic display that provides the flight crew with surveillance information about other aircraft, including their position.
Traffic information for a CDTI may be obtained from one or multiple sources, including ADS-B, TCAS, and TIS-B.
Direct air-to-air transmission of ADS-B messages supports display of proximate aircraft on a CDTI.
In addition to traffic based on ADS-B reports, a CDTI function might also display current weather conditions, terrain, airspace structure, obstructions, detailed airport maps, and other information relevant to the particular phase of flight.
Eventually, the ACAS function may be provided based solely on ADS-B, without requiring active interrogations of other aircraft transponders.
The U.S. FAA ADS-B implementation is broken into three segments each with a corresponding time line.
Ground segment implementation and deployment is expected to begin in 2009 and be completed by 2013 throughout the National Airspace System.
Airborne equipage is user driven and is expected to be completed both voluntarily based on perceived benefits and through regulatory actions (Rulemaking) by the FAA.
The cost to equip with ADS-B Out capability is relatively small and would benefit the airspace with surveillance in areas not currently served by radar.
The FAA intends to provide similar service within the NAS to what radar is currently providing (5NM en route and 3NM terminal radar standards) as a first step to implementation.
However, ADS-B In capability is viewed as the most likely way to improve NAS throughput and enhance capacity.
Decision due in the 2012-13 time frame.
Completed deployment will occur in the 2013-2014 time frame.
Equipage is expected to begin after the proposed rule is finalized in around 2010.
In equipage will be based on user perceived benefit, but is expected to be providing increased situational awareness and efficiency benefits within this segment.
Those aircraft who choose to equip in advance of any mandate will see benefits associated with preferential routes and specific applications.
Limited radar decommissioning will begin in the time frame with an ultimate goal of a 50% reduction in the Secondary Surveillance Radar infrastructure.
A concern for any ADS-B protocol is the capacity for carrying ADS-B messages from aircraft, as well as allowing the radio channel to continue to support any legacy services.
For 1090ES, each ADS-B message is composed of a pair of data packets.
The greater the number of packets transmitted from one aircraft, the lesser the number of aircraft that can participate in the system, due to the fixed and limited channel data bandwidth.
System capacity is defined by establishing a criterion for what the worst environment is likely to be, then making that a minimum requirement for system capacity.
For 1090ES, both TCAS and ATCRBS are existing users of the channel.
There are some concerns about ADS-B dependence.
An independent means of verifying surveillance is considered by some to have more value than a dependent means.
There are some General Aviation concerns that ADS-B removes anonymity of the VFR aircraft operations.
The ICAO 24-bit code specifically assigned to each aircraft will allow monitoring of that aircraft when within the service volumes of the ADS-B system.
Hungarian are officially recognised regional languages and Austrian Sign Language is a protected minority language throughout the country.
Prior to 1999: Austrian Schilling.
It borders both Germany and the Czech Republic to the north, Slovakia and Hungary to the east, Slovenia and Italy to the south, and Switzerland and Liechtenstein to the west.
The capital city is the city of Vienna on the Danube River.
The origins of modern Austria date back to the ninth century, when the territory of Upper and Lower Austria became increasingly populated.
Austria is a permanent neutrality and one of the few countries that includes the concept of everlasting neutrality in its constitution.
Austria has been a member of the United Nations since 1955 and joined the European Union in 1995.
A SHORT SUMMARY OF THE HISTORY OF AUSTRIA.
History of Austria ARTICLE INSTEAD OF THIS SHORT SUMMARY.
Settled in prehistoric times , the central European land that is now Austria was occupied in pre-Roman times by various Leopold of Babenberg in 976.
The following centuries were characterized by the settlement of the country.
In 1156 the Styria.
With the death of Carinthia after that.
In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, the Habsburgs began to accumulate other provinces in the vicinity of the Duchy of Austria.
In 1438, Duke Albert V of Austria was chosen as the successor to his father-in-law, Emperor Sigismund.
Although Albert himself only reigned for a year, from then on, every emperor of the Holy Roman Empire was a Habsburg, with only one exception.
The Habsburgs began also to accumulate lands far from the Hereditary Lands.
In 1477, Philip the Fair married the heiress of Castile and Aragon, and thus acquired Spain and its Italian, African, and New World appendages for the Habsburgs.
In 1526, following the Long War of 1593 to 1606.
The long reign of Vienna in 1683, a series of campaigns resulted in the return of all of Hungary to Austrian control by the Treaty of Carlowitz in 1699.
Austria became engaged in the war with Revolutionary France, which lasted until 1797 and at the beginning proved unsuccessful for Austria.
Defeats against Napoleon meant the end of the old Holy Roman Empire in 1806.
The Italian and Romanian communities.
As a result, ruling Austria-Hungary became increasingly difficult in an age of emerging nationalist movements.
Yet the central government tried its best to be accommodating in some respects; minorities were entitled to schools in their own language, for example.
The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914 by Gavrilo Princip (a member of the Serbian nationalist group the Black Hand) was the immediate cause of World War I, leading to the downfall and the end of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
War left the country in political chaos and economic ruin, the Central Powers (being Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, Germany and Turkey) having been defeated in 1918.
The Empire was broken up - Austria, with most of the German-speaking parts became a republic (see Treaty of Saint-Germain) and the remaining subordinate territories became independent states.
However, many German Austrians found themselves living in the newly-established Czechoslovakia, and Austria was deprived of half of the Tyrol, which was awarded to Italy as a prize for entering the war on the Allied side.
It has sustained this loss to the present day and this has been a source of friction with Italy.
Between 1918 and 1919, it was officially known as the Republic of Entente powers forbade German Austria to unite with Germany, they also forbade the name; it was therefore changed to the Republic of Austria.
The monarchy was dissolved in 1919 and a parliamentary democracy was set up under the constitution of 10 November 1920.
In the autumn of 1922, Austria was granted an international loan supervised by the League of Nations.
The purpose of the loan was to avert bankruptcy, stabilize the currency, and improve its general economic condition.
With the granting of the loan, Austria passed from an independent state to the control exercised by the League of Nations.
At the time, the real ruler of Austria became the League, through its commissioner in Vienna.
The commissioner was a Dutchman not formally part of the Austrian government.
Austria had fallen under an international receivership, which had not been seen openly since Lord Croner became the financial adviser to the bankrupt Khedivial Government of Egypt a little less than half a century earlier.
The First Austrian Republic, lasted until 1933 when Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss dissolved parliament and established an autocratic regime tending towards Italian fascism, (Austrofascism) in order, partly, to check the power of Nazis who were still advocating union with Germany.
After the Austrian Civil War in February 1934, several members of the Schutzbund were executed, the Social Democratic party was outlawed and many of its members were imprisoned or emigrated.
His successor Hitler, himself a native of Austria who had lost Austrian citizenship in 1925, proclaimed its Anschluss with Germany, incorporating it to the Third Reich.
Austria thus ceased to exist as an independent state; the Nazis called it Ostmark until 1942 when it was again renamed Alpen-Donau-Reichsgaue.
Much like Germany, Austria, too, was divided into a British, a French, a Soviet and an American Zone and governed by the Allied Commission for Austria.
Largely owing to Karl Renner's action on April 27th in setting up a Provisional Government, however, there was a subtle difference in the treatment of Austria by the Allies.
The Austrian Government was recognized and tolerated by the Four Powers.
Austria, in general, was treated like it had been originally invaded by Germany and liberated by the Allies.
Although the Eastern part of Austria, including the greater Vienna area, lay in the Soviet Zone, the capital itself was equally divided into four occupational zones.
Outside of Vienna, however, travel across zone borders, in particular leaving or entering the Soviet zone, was difficult and time-consuming if possible at all.
During the time of the Berlin Air Lift, Soviet military pressure was increased further, but could be successfully overcome by skillful military, political and diplomatic influence on the part of the other Allies.
On 15 May 1955 Austria regained full independence by concluding the Austrian State Treaty with the Four Occupying Powers.
On 26 October 1955 Austria was declared "permanently neutral" by act of Parliament, which it remains to this day.
The Proporz and consensus systems largely held even during the years between 1966 and 1983, when there were non-coalition governments, but this era has now passed.
Austria became a member of the European Union in 1995 and retained its constitutional neutrality, like some other EU members, such as Sweden.
The Parliament of Austria consists of two chambers.
The composition of the Nationalrat is determined every four years by a general election in which every citizen over 16 years (since 2007) is allowed to vote to fill its 183 seats.
This period will be extended to five years after the next election.
In September 2002, the coalition between the Freedom Party in February 2003.
After general elections held in October 2006, the Social Democrats emerged as the largest party, whereas the People's Party lost about 8% in votes.
Political realities prohibited any of the two major parties from forming a coalition with smaller parties.
In January 2007 the People's Party and Social Democrats formed a Grand Coalition with the social democrat Alfred Gusenbauer as Chancellor.
Austria began to reassess its definition of neutrality following the fall of the Soviet Union, granting overflight rights for the EU's evolving security structure.
Also in 1995, it joined the Partnership for Peace and subsequently participated in peacekeeping missions in Bosnia.
Austria attaches great importance to participation in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other international economic organizations, and it has played an active role in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
In 1972, the country began construction of a nuclear-powered electricity-generation station at Zwentendorf on the River Danube, following a unanimous vote in parliament.
However, in 1978, a referendum voted approximately 50.5% against nuclear power, 49.5% for, and parliament subsequently unanimously passed a law forbidding the use of nuclear power to generate electricity.
Austria currently produces more than half of its electricity by hydropower.
Together with other renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and biomass powerplants, the electricity supply from renewable energy amounts to nearly 80% of total use in Austria.
The rest is produced by gas and oil powerplants.
With the end of the Cold War, and more importantly the removal of the former heavily guarded "Iron Curtain" separating Austria and Hungary, the Austrian military have been assisting Austrian border guards in trying to prevent border crossings by illegal immigrants.
Some politicians have called for a prolongation of this mission, but the legality of this is heavily disputed.
In accordance with the Austrian constitution, armed forces may only be deployed in a limited number of cases, mainly to defend the country and aid in cases of national emergencies, such as in the wake of natural disasters etc.
They may generally not be used as auxiliary police forces.
Despite, or perhaps because of, its self-declared status of permanent neutrality, Austria has a long and proud tradition of engaging in UN-led peacekeeping and other humanitarian missions.
The Bosnia, Kosovo and, since 1974, on the Golan Heights.
Austria is a largely sq.
The high mountainous Alps in the west of Austria flatten somewhat into low lands and plains in the east of the country.
Austria can be divided into five areas.
The biggest area are the Carpathians account for around 12% of its area.
The foothills in the east and areas surrounding the periphery of the Pannoni low country amount to about 12% of the total landmass.
The second greater mountain area (much lower than the Alps) is situated in the north.
Known as the Austrian granite plateau, it is located in the central area of the Bohemian Mass, and accounts for 10% of Austria.
The Austrian portion of the Vienna basin comprises the remaining 4%.
The greater part of Austria lies in the cool/temperate Danube valley, the climate shows continental features with less rain than the alpine areas.
Although Austria is cold in the winter, in the summer temperatures can be relatively warm reaching 20-35 degrees Celsius.
Austria is one of the 10 richest countries in the world in terms of GDP per capita, has a well-developed privatisation has reduced state holdings to a level comparable to other European economies.
Labour movements are particularly strong in Austria and have large influence on labour politics.
Next to a highly-developed industry, international tourism is the most important part of the national economy.
Responsibility for educational oversight in Austria lies partly at the Austrian compulsory for nine years, i.e. usually to the age of fifteen.
The Austrian university system had been open to any student who passed the Matura examination until recently.
A 2006 bill allowed the introduction of entrance exams for studies such as Medicine.
Austria's population estimate in October 2006 was 8,292,322.
In contrast to the capital, other cities do not exceed 1 million inhabitants: the second largest city Graz is home to 250,099 inhabitants, followed by Linz (188,968), Salzburg (150,000), and Innsbruck (117,346).
All other cities have fewer than 100,000 inhabitants.
German-speaking Austrians, by far the country's largest group, form roughly 90% of Austria's population.
The Austrian federal states of Roma and Sinti (gypsies) are an officially recognized ethnic minority in Austria.
There is also a distinct grammatical standard for Austrian German with a few differences to the German spoken in Germany.
As of 2006, some of the Austrian states introduced standardised tests for new citizens, to assure their language ability, cultural knowledge and accordingly their ability to integrate into the Austrian society.
An estimated 13,000 to 40,000 Styria (estimated at a number between 1,600 and 5,000) are not recognized as a minority and do not enjoy special rights, although the State Treaty of July 27 1955 states otherwise.
The right for bilingual topographic signs for the regions where Slovene- and Croat-Austrians live alongside the Germanic population (as required by the 1955 State Treaty) is still to be fully implemented.
Many Carinthians are afraid of Slovenian territorial claims, pointing to the fact that Yugoslav troops entered the state after each of the two World Wars and considering that some official Slovenian atlases show parts of Carinthia as Slovenian cultural territory.
At the end of the twentieth century, about 74% of Austria's population were registered as Roman Catholic, while about 5% considered themselves Protestants.
While northern and central Germany was the origin of the Calvinist and Lutheran Protestants.
Austria continued to remain largely influenced by Catholicism.
Austria's past as a European power and its cultural environment have generated a broad contribution to various forms of art, most notably among them music.
Vienna has long been especially an important center of musical innovation.
Eighteenth and nineteenth century composers were drawn to the city due to the patronage of the Habsburgs, and made Vienna the European capital of classical music.
During the Baroque period, Slavic and Hungarian folk forms influenced Austrian music.
Vienna's status began its rise as a cultural center in the early 1500s, and was focused around instruments including the lute.
Ludwig van Beethoven spent the better part of his life in Vienna.
Austria's current Mozart, was most likely not composed by Mozart himself.
Austria has also produced one notable jazz musician, keyboardist Josef Zawinul who helped pioneer electronic influences in jazz as well as being a notable composer in his own right.
Among Austrian artists and architects one can find painters Gustav Klimt, Oskar Kokoschka, Egon Schiele or Friedensreich Hundertwasser, photographer Inge Morath or architect Otto Wagner.
Austria was the cradle of numerous scientists with international reputations.
Among them are Ludwig Boltzmann, Ernst Mach, Victor Franz Hess and Christian Doppler, prominent scientists in the nineteenth century.
In addition to physicists, Austria was the birthplace of two of the greatest philosophers of the twentieth century, Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper.
A focus of Austrian science has always been medicine and psychology, starting in medieval times with Vienna School of Medicine.
Austria was home to psychologists Sigmund Freud, Alfred Adler, Paul Watzlawick and Hans Asperger and psychiatrist Viktor Frankl.
Complementing its status as a land of artists and scientists, Austria has always been a country of poets, writers,and novelists.
It was the home of novelists Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig, Thomas Bernhard, Franz Kafka or Robert Musil, of poets Georg Trakl, Franz Werfel, Franz Grillparzer, Rainer Maria Rilke or Adalbert Stifter and writer Karl Kraus.
Famous contemporary playwrights and novelists are Nobel prize winner Elfriede Jelinek and writer Peter Handke.
Austria's cuisine is derived from the cuisine of the Italian and Bavarian cuisines, from which both dishes and methods of food preparation have often been borrowed.
The Austrian Cuisine is therefore one of the most multi and transcultural cuisines in Europe.
The candy PEZ was invented in Austria.
Austria is also famous for its Apfelstrudel.
The most popular sport in Austria is alpine skiing and Austria shows constant dominance in the Nations-Cup.
Similar sports such as snowboarding or ski-jumping are also widely popular.
The most popular team sport in Austria is ice hockey and basketball.
Spanish also spoken.
United States located in the 2000 census showed a total population of 57,291.
The pre-Western history of Eastern Samoa (now American Samoa) is inextricably bound with the history of Western Samoa (now independent Samoa).
The Manu'a Islands of American Samoa has one of the oldest histories of Polynesia, in connection with the Tui Manua title, connected with the histories of the archipelagos of Fiji, Tonga, the Cook Islands, Tokelau and elsewhere in the Pacific, where Manu'a once had influence.
During the Tongan occupation of Samoa, Manu'a was the only island group that remained independent.
The islands of Tutuila and Aunu'u were politically connected to 'Upolu island in what is now independent Samoa.
It can be said that all the Samoa islands are politically connected today through the faamatai chiefly system and through family connections that are as strong as ever.
This system of the faamatai and the customs of faasamoa originated with two of the most famous early chiefs of Samoa, who were both women and related, Nafanua and Salamasina.
Early Western contact included a battle in the eighteenth century between French explorers and islanders in Tutuila, for which the Samoans were blamed in the West, giving them a reputation for ferocity.
Early nineteenth century Rarotongan missionaries to the Samoa islands were followed by a group of Western missionaries led by Congregationalist London Missionary Society in the 1830s, officially bringing Christianity to Samoa.
Less than a hundred years later, the Samoan Congregationalist Church became the first independent indigenous church of the South Pacific.
In March of 1889, a German naval force invaded a village in Samoa, and by doing so destroyed some American property.
Three American warships then entered the Samoan harbor and were prepared to fire on the three German warships found there.
Before guns were fired, a typhoon sank both the American and German ships.
A compulsory armistice was called because of the lack of warships.
After World War I, during the time of the Mau movement in Western Samoa (then a New Zealand protectorate), there was a corresponding American Samoa Mau movement, led by Samuel Sailele Ripley, who was from Leone village and was a WWI war veteran.
After meetings in America, he was prevented from disembarking from the ship that brought him home to American Samoa and was not allowed to return.
The American Samoa Mau movement having been suppressed by the US Navy, in 1930 the US Congress sent a committee to investigate the status of American Samoa, led by Americans who had had a part in the overthrow of the Hawaiian Kingdom.
In 1938, famous aviator Ed Musick and his crew died on the Pan American World Airways S-42 Samoan Clipper over Pago Pago, on a survey flight to Auckland, New Zealand.
Sometime after take-off the aircraft experienced trouble and Musick turned it back toward Pago Pago.
As the crew began dumping fuel in preparation for an emergency landing a spark in the fuel pump caused an explosion that tore the aircraft apart in mid-air.
In time, the Navy-appointed governor was replaced by a locally elected one.
Politics of American Samoa takes place in a framework of a pluriform multi-party system.
There is also the traditional village politics of the Samoa Islands, the "fa'amatai" and the "fa'asamoa", which continues in American Samoa and in independent Samoa, and which interacts across these current boundaries.
The Fa'amatai and the Fono take place at all levels of the Samoan body politic, from the family, to the village, to the region, to national matters.
Persons born in American Samoa are American nationals, but not United States citizens.
Samoans are entitled to elect one Republican National Conventions.
American Samoa is located within the geographical region of Oceania.
In 1997 a protest was issued against Samoa, formerly named Western Samoa, for changing its official name to the shorter form.
The official view in American Samoa is that such a form detracts from the Samoan identity of American Samoa, and public officials and documents from American Samoa still refer to Samoa as Western Samoa.
The Fair Labor Standards Act has, since inception, contained special provisions for American Samoa, citing its limited economy.
Since the American set based on the recommendations of a Special Industry Committee meeting bi-annually.
Originally, the Act contained provisions for other territories, which were phased out as those territories developed more diverse economies.
American Samoa is small enough to have just one ZIP code, 96799.
The island contains 23 primary schools and six secondary schools, all of which are operated by the American Samoa Department of Education.
American Samoa Community College, founded in 1970, provides post-secondary education on the islands.
The culture in American Samoa is almost basically the same as in Western Samoa (Upolu).
The U.S. military and agricultural occupation distinguishes the civilization of American Samoa from the sovereign Samoa.
About 30 ethnic Samoans, many from American Samoa, currently play in the National Football League.
A 2002 article from ESPN estimated that a Samoan male (either an American Samoan, or a Samoan living in the 50 United States) is 40 times more likely to play in the NFL than a non-Samoan American.
A number have also ventured into professional wrestling (see especially Anoa'i family).
The bloodsport of dog fighting is legal in American Samoa.
Today, that distinction has mostly disappeared.
They spend the majority of their time working on research, although they quite often have other duties such as building sandcastles,instruments, or aiding in the operation of an observatory.
The number of professional strippers in the United States is surprisingly quite large.
The American Astronomical Society, which is the major organization of professional astronomers in North America, has approximately 6500 members.
This number includes scientists from other fields, such as physics, geology, and engineering, whose research interests are closely related to astronomy.
The International Astronomical Union comprises almost 10,000 members from 87 different countries who are involved in astronomical research at the PhD level and beyond.
While the number of professional astronomers world-wide is not much larger than the population of a small town, there is a huge community of amateur astronomers.
Most cities have amateur astronomy clubs that meet on a regular basis and often host star parties in their communities.
The Astronomical Society of the Pacific is the largest general astronomical society in the world, comprising both professional and amateur astronomers as well as educators from 70 different nations.
Like any hobby, most people who think of themselves as amateur astronomers may devote a few hours a month to stargazing and reading the latest developments in research.
However, amateurs span the range from so-called "armchair astronomers" to the very ambitious, who own science-grade telescopes and instruments with which they are able to make their own discoveries and assist professional astronomers in research.
Contrary to the classical image of an old astronomer peering through a telescope through the dark hours of the night, it is very rare for a modern professional astronomer to use an eyepiece on a larger astronomical survey or space observatory data.
Others work with radio telescopes like the Very Large Array, which is entirely automated, although it is maintained by telescope operators.
Nomination for removal.
I created the header "Altruism in Politics" and introduced a few sentences as a starter.
Altruism doesn't really exist.
Even if you are doing something that is helpful or charitable for others, you will still reap the good of that action.
The idea that one should do things for altruistic purposes is wrong and can lead to the downfall of society, as Ayn Rand wrote about in AtlasShrugged.
If one portrays that they are doing something completely for others benefit and has no self interest, that is when you should question thier motives.
Why do they wish to appear so benevolent?
When one does for other people at least there are good feelings that arise and right there, the theory of altruism is defunct or never existed.
The foregoing view is known as "psychological egoism" and is widely dismissed by philosophers, for reasons that somebody ought to explain.
People sometimes do generous things even if it makes them unhappy.
When you say "widely dismissed", do you have anything to actually back that up?
What philosophers have dismissed this idea?
I would like to know how you can substantiate your criticism.
You can find it dismissed in any of many dozens of general philosophy textbooks as well as books about ethics.
By the way, you might not know that psychological egoism very firmly, as a matter of fact.
How about this for a definition of altruism?
I think it needs some revision, but perhaps it is a useful start.
The view that one ought to be motivated solely or primarily by the interests of others rather than the interests of oneself.
Altruism is then viewed as a conclusion, rather than a foundation or argument -- presumably some meta-ethical argument would be needed in order to explain why we ought to be altruistic.
The article text has not been changed in any way; Some of these suggestions may be wrong, some may be right.
I'm trying to figure out the deal myself.
Communism is obviously a system that altruists advocate.
The individual should work for the benefit of the collective instead of pursuing self-interest.
Maybe somebody doesn't want to hear it?
But you're talking about the attempts at putting communism into practice that we've seen.
I just told you why.
The belief that people have a moral obligation to help others (ethical altruism) is frequently behind the advocacy of political systems such as communism.
I'm not sure if I can make it any clearer.
There are people who advocate communism because they think the pursuit of self-interest is neglecting what they believe to be a moral calling for individuals to work for benefit of the group.
Do you disagree?
If so, what about that isn't correct?
Frankly, the whole "altruism in politics" section is one big objectivist straw man.
Certainly, altruism can be (and is) used as a basis for various forms of socialism (including communism), but it can just as easily be used as a basis for "any other" political or economic system.
An altruist could believe that pure laissez-faire capitalism best serves the common good, for example, and support it for that reason.
If I can throw in an outsider's voice here, it seems like alturism can be used to justify virtually any popular political system.
The controversial pair of paragraphs seems to really be meaningless.
Good point, but you're making a distinction that not everyone believes to exist.
If you define capitalism as being opposed to the idea of public schooling, than capitalism is highly unpopular.
Most people who support a free market do so, apparently, because they believe that it serves altruism best, because these people also support things that have altruism as a prerequisite.
This version gives more information than the previous case (because it can be extrapolated to that other case), but wouldn't appear in the Wikipedia because it's a really boring statement.
I think that this also indicates that the last sentence is sorta POV.
A non-alturist can be a socialist if they believe that, by agreeing to a socialist social contract, they can do better than in another sort of state (whether or not that is true is beside the point).
The altruism ethic was around long before Ayn Rand.
No offense, but when I talk to you it seems like you don't read the article.
Nowhere in the article does it say that the ethical doctrine of altruism is used to mean "actively promoting the good of others" or anything like that.
The ethical doctrine holds that people have a moral (or ethical) obligation to do things or refrain from doing things so that a positive benefit is bestowed on other people.
I stand corrected -- I hadn't read the change to the top of the article, assuming that the only thing being changed was the poltics section.
Before you made that change, the article included refraining from murdering others (when it would do one's self good) as an altruistic act.
I also disagree with your edits to the beginning of the article, by the way.
We shouldn't be adjusting it to what we think it means.
The previous version cohered with philosophical dictionaries.
The current version is only supported by a very small group of people, based on the Google hits.
This has nothing to do with objectivism.
Rand is just someone who didn't like the ethical doctrine.
As far as I know she didn't go into any detail in regard to defining the doctrine.
But I'm not that familiar with Objectivism so I'm not the one to consult on that.
They'll promote things like welfare programs, or the other examples cited in the article.
By the definition of altruism, refraining from murdering someone -- when murdering them would be to your benefit -- is practicing altruism.
Refraining from Enron-esque corporate practices: altruistic.
Philosophers probably define it that way because it's not always possible to distinguish action from inaction.
That wouldn't be appropriate at all.
Libertarians or objectivists do not define ethical altruism any differently than anyone else.
Are you saying that defining altruism as the dictionaries do (to include refraining from harm) is equivalent to defining it as you do, excluding refraining-from-harm?
Is the dictionary of philosophy you referred to written by an objectivist?
I doubt it.
Many objectivists and libertarians would be just fine with that definition.
Others, who may or may not be objectivists who think it's not precise enough, like me, will try their best to refine it.
It has nothing to do with objectivism.
I don't know why you keep bringing objectivism up.
Maybe you think that I'm an objectivist, and that since I like the definition in the article that the article represents the objectivist definition of ethical altruism?
Dude, again it seems like you don't read the article.
This is getting old.
I guess you'll need to learn French quick then won't you?
If we are to present a balanced account, why not mention Plato's Republic, arguably the most famous philosophical work of all time, which almost entirely an argument against egoism (this point is debatable, but it's the most obvious literal interpretation)?
There *is* an ethical doctrine called altruism.
Consult a dictionary of philosophy.
I don't have time to read and think about this all, so I'll just start straight from my viewpoint: altruism is a class of ways of thinking about ethical problems.
So, is the altruist who is chained up and thrown in jail being unethical because he/she isn't helping anybody?
Since there are two kinds of altruism --one that describes motivation, and the other that describes behavior and results, if you force the latter kind of altruism on someone, then it is still altruism.
The reason is that he is still behaving in a way that benefits others at net cost or neutrality to himself (behavior is still behavior whether it's coerced or not).
It's "not" the "other" kind of altruism that refers to to motivation, for sure.
Yeah I guess you're right.
It is kind of awkward.
Jerusalem to Jericho; and he fell among robbers, who both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
And by chance a certain priest was going down that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
And in like manner a Levite also, when he came to the place, and saw him, passed by on the other side.
I seriously doubt Nietzsche would, but it's certainly true that Ayn Rand associated Hitler with altruism.
On the other hand, she also associated all liberals, socialists, communists, conservatives and even some libertarians with altruism.
I associate Hitler with egoism, but you won't see me pushing this point on the egoism article - because I recognize that Hitler is simply too much of a touchy subject, and therefore not a good example to give in any non-Nazi related circumstances.
Perhaps in a few hundred years, when people will look to the 20th century will less emotional attachment, things will be different.
Excellent work for all of you.
This knowledge gives my life meaning for another day.
What is self-sacrifice?
The doing good to another person where no shadow nor suggestion of benefit to one's self can result from it.
Millions of them!
You have not jumped to conclusions?
They don't need it: the acts themselves reveal the golden impulse back of them.
Take the case in the book here.
The man lives three miles up-town.
It is bitter cold, snowing hard, midnight.
He is about to enter the horse-car when a gray and ragged old woman, a touching picture of misery, puts out her lean hand and begs for rescue from hunger and death.
What makes you think that?
Pray what else could I think?
Do you imagine that there is some other way of looking at it?
Can you put yourself in the man's place and tell me what he felt and what he thought?
The sight of that suffering old face pierced his generous heart with a sharp pain.
He could not bear it.
He could endure the three-mile walk in the storm, but he could "not endure the tortures his conscience would suffer" if he turned his back and left that poor old creature to perish.
He would not have been able to sleep, for thinking of it.
What was his state of mind on his way home?
It was a state of joy which only the self-sacrificer knows.
His heart sang, he was unconscious of the storm.
He felt well?
One cannot doubt it.
Now let us add up the details and see how much he got for his twenty-five cents.
In the first place HE couldn't bear the pain which the old suffering face gave him.
Then there is but ONE law, one source.
That both the noblest impulses and the basest proceed from that one source?
Will you put that law into words?
This is the law, keep it in your mind.
He never does anything for any one else's comfort, spiritual or physical?
Otherwise he will not do it.
It is the opinion of a particular fringe group.
I think it might be going a bit too far to characterize the majority of the people today as altruistic in their actions.
In other words, the majority of people today believe that altruistic behavior is the ideal good behavior.
I don't think it gives any evolutionary advantage but it might result in a mimetic advantage.
In fact I would say altruism results in a large societal disadvantage.
Rome rose and had a thousand year empire without altruism.
On the other hand Christianity resulted in the death of the Roman Empire.
The rise of Europe only occured as Christianity declined in influence.
Most modern societies are thoroughly non altruistic.
In fact almost all the present day successful societies are based on extreme individualism and selfishness.
They are also incredibly successful.
Futhermore, I would say the true advantage of altruism is not that it works well for societies but rather that human beings like the idea of it.
I believe this is because we evolved in a hunter gatherer society where altruistic behaviour was necessary for the survival of the tribe.
In our modern society this is no longer the case but we still cling to outmoded evolutionary behaviour.
Thus we very strongly appreciate altruism even though it is no longer necessary in most contexts and can even be very harmful.
If I help out someone who's unemployed, keeping him afloat while they get a job, there isn't necessarily any concrete benefit to me.
After all, he's the one who got the job and I didn't make a penny, so it's not unreasonable for me to claim altruism.
But if the government does the same thing, it does get to benefit from this action, because now he's doing work, earning money and paying taxes, as opposed to living on the street, eating out of dumpsters and panhandling.
Really, what it's doing is making an investment in one of its members by extending its societal safety net, which is just reciprocal altruism.
Moreover, when the government uses part of my taxes to help that him find a job, it's not forcing altruism on me, it's acting in its own interest, redistributing its funds so as to benefit not only him but its collective self.
From my point of view, I can't claim altruism because, in return for my taxes, I get rights and services unavailable otherwise, so I benefit by paying.
This is likewise reciprocal altruism.
In addition, I could argue that helping him in my indirect interest for people to be a productive part of the economy and also in my join interests as a member of society.
I could also argue that it is in my direct interest because, as a person with normal level of empathy, I enjoy helping people who genuinely need it and honestly feel that it's a good thing when people prosper instead of fail.
Some opponents of the "ethical doctrine" called altruism (that people have an ethical obligation to help or further the welfare of others) argue that the doctrine is dangerous as it can lead to violations of individual liberty if the state enforces the principle.
Amoeboids may be divided into several morphological categories based on the form and structure of the pseudopods.
Those where the pseudopods are supported by regular arrays of microtubules are called actinopods, and forms where they are not are called rhizopods, further divided into lobose, filose, and reticulose amoebae.
There is also a strange group of giant marine amoeboids, the xenophyophores, that do not fall into any of these categories.
Traditionally the amoeboid protozoa are grouped together as the Sarcodina, variously ranked from class to phylum, with each of the above categories as a formal subtaxon.
However, since they are all based on form rather than phylogeny, newer systems generally separate some out or abandon them entirely.
Most amoeboids are now included in two major supergroups - the Amoebozoa, including most lobose amoebae and slime moulds, and the Rhizaria, including the Cercozoa, Foraminifera, radiolarian classes and certain heliozoa.
However, amoeboids have appeared separately in many other groups, including various different lines of algae not listed above.
Amoeboids are classified in a sub-phylum called sarcodina.
Basically, amoeboids move by moving their nucleus, and cytoplasm as their basic structure.
As the cytoplasm surrounds the prey, it injects enzymes into the organism, thus digesting their prey.
Work on ASCII began in 1960.
The first edition of the standard was published in 1963, a major revision in 1967, and the most recent update in 1986.
It currently defines codes for 128 characters: 33 are non-printing, mostly obsolete control characters that affect how text is processed, and 95 are printable characters.
Except for a few of the ASCII control characters that prescribe some elementary line-oriented formatting, ASCII does not define any mechanism for describing the structure or appearance of text within a document.
Other schemes, such as markup languages, address page and document layout and formatting.
End of Trans.
The original ASCII standard used only short descriptive phrases for each control character.
Probably the most influential single device on the interpretation of these characters was the paper tape reader/punch option.
Paper tape was a very popular medium for long-term program storage up through the 1980s, lower cost and in some ways less fragile than magnetic tape.
In particular, the Teletype 33 machine assignments for codes 17 (Control-Q, DC1, also known as XON), 19 (Control-S, DC3, also known as XOFF), and 127 (DELete) became de-facto standards.
Because the keytop for the O key also showed a left-arrow symbol (from ASCII-1963, which had this character instead of underscore), a noncompliant use of code 15 (Control-O, Shift In) interpreted as "delete previous character" was also adopted by many early timesharing systems but eventually faded out.
Code 127 is officially named "delete" but the Teletype label was "rubout".
Since the original standard gave no detailed interpretation for most control codes, interpretations of this code varied.
The original Teletype meaning, and the intent of the standard, was to make it an ignored character, the same as NUL (all zeroes).
This was specifically useful for paper tape, because punching the all-ones bit pattern on top of an existing mark would obliterate it.
Tapes designed to be "hand edited" could even be produced with spaces of extra NULs (blank tape) so that a block of characters could be "rubbed out" and then replacements put into the empty space.
Most other systems used "Backspace" for that meaning and used "Delete" as it was used on paper tape, to mean "remove the character after the cursor".
That latter interpretation is the most common today.
Many more of the control codes have taken on meanings quite different from their original ones.
Over time this meaning has been coopted and has eventually drifted.
In modern use, an ESC sent to the terminal usually indicates the start of a command sequence, usually in the form of an TECO and vi text editors.
The inherent ambiguity of many control characters, combined with their historical usage, has also created problems when transferring "plain text" files between systems.
The clearest example of this is the teletypes, and this de facto standard was copied in the CP/M operating system and then in MS-DOS and eventually Microsoft Windows.
Transmission of text over the Internet, for protocols as E-mail and the World Wide Web, uses both characters.
The DEC operating systems, along with CP/M, tracked file length only in units of disk blocks and used Control-Z (SUB) to mark the end of the actual text in the file (also done for CP/M compatibility in some cases in MS-DOS, though MS-DOS has always recorded exact file-lengths).
While the codes mentioned above have retained some semblance of their original meanings, many of the codes originally intended for stream delimiters or for link control on a terminal have lost all meaning except their relation to a letter.
The abbreviation ASCIIZ or string (also known as a C string).
Codes 33 to 126, known as the printable characters, represent letters, digits, punctuation marks, and a few miscellaneous symbols.
Of these, only the aliases "US-ASCII" and "ASCII" have achieved widespread use.
One often finds them in the optional "charset" parameter in the Content-Type header of some MIME messages, in the equivalent "meta" element of some HTML documents, and in the encoding declaration part of the prolog of some XML documents.
As computer technology spread throughout the world, different standards bodies and corporations developed many variations of ASCII in order to facilitate the expression of non-English languages that used Roman-based alphabets.
One could class some of these variations as "ASCII extensions", although some misuse that term to cover all variants, including those that do not preserve ASCII's character-map in the 7-bit range.
The PETSCII Code used by Commodore International for their 8-bit systems is probably unique among post-1970 codes in being based on ASCII-1963 instead of the far more common ASCII-1967.
Eventually, improved technology brought out-of-band means to represent the information formerly encoded in the eighth bit of each byte, freeing this bit to add another 128 additional character-codes for new assignments.
Eight-bit standards such as ISO-8859-1 (Latin 1), its variant Windows-1252 (often mislabeled as ISO-8859-1), and the original 7-bit ASCII remain the most common character encodings in use today.
To permit backward compatibility, the 128 ASCII and 256 ISO-8859-1 (Latin 1) characters are assigned Unicode/UCS code points that are the same as their codes in the earlier standards.
Therefore, ASCII can be considered a 7-bit encoding scheme for a very small subset of Unicode/UCS, and, conversely, the UTF-7 and UTF-8 encoding forms are binary-compatible with ASCII for code points below 128, meaning every properly encoded ASCII file is also a valid UTF-8 and UTF-7 file.
Other encoding forms such as UTF-16 resemble ASCII in how they represent the first 128 characters of Unicode, but tend to use 16 or 32 bits per character, so they require conversion for compatibility.
An alphanumerically sorted array of bytes will appear ASCIIbetically when viewed in an ASCII-compatible character set.
A refined version of this order converts uppercase letters to lowercase before comparing ASCII values.
It is an motion due to the phenomenon of persistence of vision, and can be created and demonstrated in a number of ways.
The most common method of presenting animation is as a motion picture or video program, although several other forms of presenting animation also exist.
The motion picture film.
French filmmaker stop-motion animation.
Another French artist, traditional (hand-drawn) animation.
Following the successes of Blackton and Cohl, many other artists began experimenting with animation.
One such artist was Winsor McCay, a successful newspaper cartoonist, who created detailed animations that required a team of artists and painstaking attention for detail.
Each frame was drawn on paper; which invariably required backgrounds and characters to be redrawn and animated.
Among McCay's most noted films are "Little Nemo" (1911), "Gertie the Dinosaur" (1914) and "The Sinking of the Lusitania" (1918).
The most successful early animation producer was John Randolph Bray, who, along with animator Earl Hurd, patented the cel animation process which dominated the animation industry for the rest of the decade.
Animated works are usually created using one or more of a number of various techniques.
Traditional animation was the process used for most animated films of the 20th century.
The individual frames of a traditionally animated film are photographs of drawings, which are first drawn on paper.
To create the illusion of movement, each drawing differs slightly from the one before it.
The animators' drawings are traced or photocopied onto transparent acetate sheets called cels, which are filled in with paints in assigned colors or tones on the side opposite the line drawings.
The completed character cels are photographed one-by-one onto motion picture film against a painted background by a rostrum camera.
The traditional cel animation process became obsolete by the beginning of the 21st century.
Today, animators' drawings and the backgrounds are either scanned into or drawn directly into a computer system.
Various software programs are used to color the drawings and simulate camera movement and effects.
The final animated piece is output to one of several delivery mediums, including traditional 35 mm film and newer media such as digital video.
Many early disney films used cel frame animation.
Stop-motion animation is used to describe animation created by physically manipulating real-world objects and photographing them one frame of film at a time to create the illusion of movement.
There are many different types of stop-motion animation, usually named after the type of media used to create the animation.
Like stop motion, computer animation encompasses a variety of techniques, the unifying idea being that the animation is created digitally on a computer.
Figures are created and/or edited on the computer using 2D bitmap graphics or created and edited using 2D vector graphics.
This includes automated computerized versions of traditional animation techniques such as of tweening, morphing, onion skinning and interpolated rotoscoping.
Digital models manipulated by an animator.
In order to manipulate a mesh, it is given a digital armature (sculpture).
This process is called rigging.
Motion capture to name but a few.
Many 3D animations are very believable and are commonly use as special effects for recent movies.
In twin sister, the chaste huntress Artemis.
In Roman mythology he is known as Apollo.
As the patron of attribute of Apollo.
Hymns sung to Apollo were called paeans.
Apollo and Helios/Sol remained separate beings in literary and mythological texts until the third century CE.
It has also been suggested that Apollo comes from the Hurrian and Hittite divinity, Aplu, who was widely evoked during the "plague years".
In other writers, the word is a mere epithet of Apollo in his capacity as a god of healing, but it is now known from Linear B that Paean was originally a separate deity.
Homer left the question unanswered, whilst Hesiod separated the two and, in later poetry Paean was invoked independently as a god of healing.
Python led to his association with battle and victory; hence it became the Roman custom for a paean to be sung by an army on the march and before entering into battle, when a fleet left the harbour, and also after a victory had been won.
Apollo's links with oracles again seem to be associated with wishing to know the outcome of an illness.
Unusually among the Olympic deities, Apollo had two cult sites that had widespread influence: 650 BCE.
Oracles were also given by sons of Apollo.
The chief Apollonian festivals were the Delia, Hyacinthia, Metageitnia, Pyanepsia, Pythia and Thargelia.
Apollo's most common attributes were the bow and wolves, dolphins, roe deer, swans, cicadas (symbolizing music and song), hawks, ravens, crows, snakes (referencing Apollo's function as the god of prophecy), mice and griffins, mythical eagle-lion hybrids of Eastern origin.
In literary contexts, Apollo represents harmony, order, and reason&mdash;characteristics contrasted with those of Dionysus, god of wine, who represents ecstasy and disorder.
The contrast between the roles of these gods is reflected in the adjectives Apollonian and Dionysian.
However, the Greeks thought of the two qualities as complementary: the two gods are brothers, and when Apollo at winter left for Hyperborea, he would leave the Delphic oracle to Dionysus.
This contrast appears to be shown on the two sides of the Borghese Vase.
Apollo is often associated with the Golden Mean.
This is the Greek ideal of moderation and a virtue that opposes gluttony.
The Roman worship of Apollo was adopted from the Greeks.
As a quintessentially Diana formed the culmination of the Secular Games, held in 17 BCE to celebrate the dawn of a new era.
In art, Apollo is depicted as a handsome beardless young man, often with a Hellenistic or Roman copy of a bronze original by the Greek sculptor Leochares, made between 350 and 325 BCE.
In the late second century CE floor mosaic from hair cut in locks grazing the neck, were developed in the third century BCE to depict Alexander the Great (Bieber 1964, Yalouris 1980).
Some time after this mosaic was executed, the earliest depictions of Christ will be beardless and haloed.
When Hera discovered that Leto was pregnant and that Zeus was the father, she banned Leto from giving birth on "terra firma", or the mainland, or any island.
In her wanderings, Leto found the newly created floating island of Delos, which was neither mainland nor a real island, and she gave birth there.
The island was surrounded by swans.
Afterwards, Zeus secured Delos to the bottom of the ocean.
This island later became sacred to Apollo.
In his youth, Apollo killed the chthonic dragon Gaia.
Apollo has his ominous aspects, too.
Marsyas, a satyr who dared challenge him to a music contest, was flayed after he lost.
Apollo brought down arrows of plague upon the Greeks because they dishonored his priest Chryses.
Apollo's arrows of plague struck Niobe, who, excessively proud of her seven sons and seven daughters, had disparaged Apollo's mother, Leto, for having only two children (Apollo and Artemis).
Admetus treated Apollo well, and, in return, the god conferred great benefits on Admetus.
Apollo helped Admetus win Fates to let Admetus live past his time, if another took his place.
But when it came time for Admetus to die, his parents, whom he had assumed would gladly die for him, refused to cooperate.
Apollo shot arrows infected with the plague into the Greek encampment during the Trojan War in retribution for Agamemnon's insult to Chryses, a priest of Apollo whose daughter Chryseis had been captured.
When Pergamos, a sacred spot in Troy.
Apollo aided Paris in the killing of Achilles by guiding the arrow of his bow into Achilles' heel.
One interpretation of his motive is that it was in revenge for Achilles' sacrilege in murdering Troilus, the god's own son by Hecuba, on the very altar of the god's own temple.
A queen of Thebes and wife of Amphion, Niobe boasted of her superiority to Leto because she had fourteen children (Niobids), seven male and seven female, while Leto had only two.
Apollo killed her sons as they practiced athletics, with the last begging for his life, and Artemis her daughters.
Apollo and Artemis used poisoned arrows to kill them, though according to some versions of the myth, a number of the Niobids were spared (Chloris, usually).
Amphion, at the sight of his dead sons, either killed himself or was killed by Apollo after swearing revenge.
A devastated Niobe fled to Mount Sipylon in Asia Minor and turned into stone as she wept.
Her tears formed the river Achelous.
Zeus had turned all the people of Thebes to stone and so no one buried the Niobids until the ninth day after their death, when the gods themselves entombed them.
Love affairs ascribed to Apollo are a late development in Greek mythology.
Their vivid anecdotal qualities have made some of them favourites of painters since the Renaissance, so that they stand out more prominently in the modern imagination.
Apollo had an affair with a human princess named Leucothea, daughter of Orchamus and sister of Clytia.
Leucothea loved Apollo who disguised himself as Leucothea's mother to gain entrance to her chambers.
Clytia, jealous of her sister because she wanted Apollo for herself, told Orchamus the truth, betraying her sister's trust and confidence in her.
Enraged, Orchamus ordered Leucothea to be buried alive.
Apollo refused to forgive Clytia for betraying his beloved, and a grieving Clytia wilted and slowly died.
Apollo changed her into an incense plant, either heliotrope or sunflower, which follows the sun every day.
By Cyrene, Apollo had a son named Aristaeus, who became the patron god of cattle, fruit trees, hunting, husbandry and bee-keeping.
He was also a culture-hero and taught humanity dairy skills and the use of nets and traps in hunting, as well as how to cultivate olives.
With Hecuba, wife of King Priam of Troy, Apollo had a son named Troilus.
An oracle prophesied that Troy would not be defeated as long as Troilus reached the age of twenty alive.
He was ambushed and killed by Achilles.
Apollo also fell in love with Cassandra, daughter of Hecuba and Priam, and Troilus' half-sister.
He promised Cassandra the gift of prophecy to seduce her, but she rejected him afterwards.
Enraged, Apollo indeed gifted her with the ability to know the future, with a curse that she could only see the future tragedies and that no one would ever believe her.
In Ion by Creusa, wife of Xuthus.
Creusa left Ion to die in the wild, but Apollo asked Hermes to save the child and bring him to the oracle at Delphi, where he was raised by a priestess.
One of his other liaisons was with acanthus tree.
Upon her death, Apollo transformed her into a sun-loving herb.
Apollo, the eternal beardless rites of passage, in which the youth died in order to be reborn as an adult.
Another male lover was cypress tree, which was said to be a sad tree because the sap forms droplets like tears on the trunk.
Later, Apollo exchanged a caduceus for a syrinx from Hermes.
Relentlessly pursued by the Furies, Orestes asked for the intercession of Athena, who decreed that he be tried by a jury of his peers, with Apollo acting as his attorney.
In the Odyssey, Odysseus and his surviving crew landed on an island sacred to Helios the sun god, where he kept sacred cattle.
Though Odysseus warned his men not to (as Tiresias and Circe had told him), they killed and ate some of the cattle and Helios had Zeus destroy the ship and all the men save Odysseus.
Apollo also had a committed suicide when he lost.
Apollo killed the Mt.
It was also said that Apollo rode on the back of a swan to the land of the Hyperboreans during the winter months, a swan that he also lent to his beloved Hyacinthus to ride.
Apollo turned Cephissus into a sea monster.
Once Pan had the audacity to compare his music with that of Apollo, and to challenge Apollo, the god of the kithara, to a trial of skill.
Tmolus, the mountain-god, was chosen to umpire.
Pan blew on his pipes, and with his rustic melody gave great satisfaction to himself and his faithful follower, Midas, who happened to be present.
Then Apollo struck the strings of his lyre.
Tmolus at once awarded the victory to Apollo, and all but Midas agreed with the judgment.
He dissented, and questioned the justice of the award.
Apollo would not suffer such a depraved pair of ears any longer, and caused them to become the ears of a donkey.
Another variation is that Apollo played his instrument (the lyre) upside down.
Marsyas could not do this with his instrument (the flute), and so Apollo hung him from a tree and flayed him alive.
Apollo, like other Greek deities, had a number of epithets applied to him, reflecting the variety of roles, duties, and aspects ascribed to the god.
Apollo worshipped in Elis, where he had a temple in the agora.
This surname, which has the same meaning as "akestor" and "alezikakos", characterized the god as the averter of evil.
Boeotian town of Acraephia, reputedly founded by his son, Acraepheus.
Actium, one of the principal places of his worship.
Celtic gods of similar character.
Apollo was worshipped at Mauvrieres (Indre) under this name.
Apollo Belenus was a healing and sun god.
A title given to Apollo at a shrine in Wiltshire.
Apollo Cunomaglus may have been a god of healing.
Cunomaglus himself may originally have been an independent healing god.
A god known from inscriptions in Britain.
This may a local fusion of Apollo and Maponus.
An epithet for Apollo at Alesia, where he was worshipped as god of healing and, possibly, of physicians.
Apollo Vindonnus had a temple at Essarois, near Chatillon-sur-Seine in Burgundy.
He was a god of healing, especially of the eyes.
Apollo has often featured in postclassical art and literature.
Apollo Lunar program in the 1960s.
Agassi was unhappy at the academy and grew rebellious.
He drank beer, smashed racquets, and grew a mohawk haircut.
At a televised tournament, he wore ripped denim jeans and, knowing his father's homophobia, wore pink lipstick and grew out his pinkie fingernail and painted it pink.
After a year at the academy, Agassi became emotionless and depressed.
Bollettieri eventually lost his temper and told Agassi to leave.
He saw Agassi's indifference and then asked what he wanted.
After Agassi's rededication to tennis in 1998, he focused more on physical conditioning than in the past and became one of the fittest players on the tour.
He had remarkable endurance and rarely appeared tired on court.
Because of his conditioning and groundstrokes, one of Agassi's central strategies was to wear down his opponents.
Agassi tried to minimize time between points, so that his opponents had as little recovery time as possible.
Agassi continually put pressure on opponents by returning the ball early and at deep angles, and attempted to dictate play from the center of the baseline and make his opponent scramble.
When in control of a point, Agassi would often pass up an opportunity to attempt a winner and hit a slightly more conservative shot, both to minimize his errors and to make his opponent run more.
In the last year of his career, various injuries, most notably in his back, robbed Agassi of consistent speed and court coverage.
As a result, players who were able to consistently hit at sharp angles with pace, particularly those who could do this on the run, gave him trouble.
To make up for this weakness, Agassi began playing more aggressive shots, to keep his opponent on the defensive and deny them opportunities to run Agassi around the court.
This both limited his options from the baseline and increased his errors.
Agassi's serve was never the strength of his game, but it improved steadily over the course of his career, and went from being a liability to being an average serve.
His most effective serve was a hard slice, which he would use to ace opponents in the ad court, and to send his opponent wide off the court when serving on the deuce side, followed by a shot to the opposite corner to send his opponent scrambling.
He relied on a heavy kick serve for his second serve, particularly early in his career.
Agassi turned professional in 1986 and won his first top-level singles title in 1987 at Itaparica.
He ended the year ranked #25.
In addition to not playing the Wimbledon from 1988 through 1990 and publicly stated that he did not wish to play there because of the event's traditionalism, particularly its "predominantly white" dress code to which players at the event are required to conform.
Many observers at the time speculated that Agassi's real motivation was that his strong baseline game would not be well suited to Wimbledon's grass court surface.
Strong performances on the tour meant that Agassi was quickly tipped as a future Grand Slam champion.
In 1991, Agassi reached his second consecutive French Open final, where he faced fellow Bollettieri Academy alumnus Jim Courier.
Courier emerged the victor in a five set final.
Agassi decided to play at Wimbledon in 1991, leading to weeks of speculation in the media about the clothes he would wear.
He eventually emerged for the first round in a completely white outfit.
He went on to reach the quarterfinals on that occasion.
Agassi once again was a key player on the United States' Davis Cup winning team in 1992.
It was their second Davis cup title in three years.
Agassi win the only doubles title of his career, at the Cincinnati Masters, partnered with Petr Korda.
Agassi missed much of the early part of this year with injury troubles and struggled at the major events.
Agassi started slowly in 1994, losing in the first week at the French Open and Wimbledon.
Nevertheless, Agassi emerged during the hard court season, winning the Canada Masters event.
In 1995, Agassi shaved his balding head, breaking with his old "image is everything" style.
Agassi attended the Australian Open for the first time and won it in his first attempt, beating Sampras in a four set final.
Agassi and Sampras met in five tournament finals in 1995, all on hardcourt, with Agassi winning three of the five.
Agassi won three Masters Series events in 1995 - the Cincinnati Masters, the Miami Masters, and the Canada Masters, and seven titles total.
Agassi reached the World No.
He held the No.
November, for a total of 30 weeks.
In terms of win/loss record, 1995 was Agassi's best year.
He won 72 matches and lost only 10.
Agassi, as he failed to reach any Grand Slam finals.
He suffered two surprise early round losses at the hands of compatriots Atlanta, beating Sergi Bruguera of Spain in the final 6-2, 6-3, 6-1.
Agassi also successfully defended his singles titles at the Cincinnati Masters and the Miami Masters.
His wrist injury resurfaced, and he played only 24 matches on the year.
He won no top-level titles and his ranking sank to World No.
Agassi was also subject to intense publicity surrounding his high-profile and turbulent marriage to actress Brooke Shields (a marriage that ended in divorce).
In 1998, Agassi rededicated himself to tennis.
He began a rigorous conditioning program and worked his way back up the rankings by playing in Challenger Series tournaments (a circuit for professional players ranked outside the world's top 50).
Perhaps most remarkably, the one-time rebel emerged as a gracious and thoughtful athlete, admired by younger players.
After winning matches, he bowed and blew two-handed kisses to spectators on each side of the court, a gesture seen as a rather humble acknowledgement of their support for him and for tennis.
He played some classic matches in this period, most notably against his old rival Pete Sampras and popular Australian Patrick Rafter.
In 1998, Agassi won five titles and leapt from No.
He won five titles in ten finals and was runner-up at the Miami Masters.
Agassi entered the history books in 1999 when he came back from two sets to love down to beat Grand Slam singles titles during his career.
He is however, the only male player in history to have won all four Grand Slam titles on three different surfaces (clay, grass and hard courts), a tribute to his adaptability, as the other four men won their Grand Slam titles on clay and grass courts.
Agassi also became the first male tennis player to win the Career Golden Slam.
Agassi reach the semifinals at Wimbledon, where he lost in five sets to Rafter in a match considered by many to be one of the best ever played at Wimbledon.
At the inaugural Tennis Masters Cup in Lisbon, Agassi reached the final after defeating Marat Safin 6-3, 6-3 in the semifinals to end the Russian's hopes to become the youngest World No.
Agassi eventually lost to Gustavo Kuerten 6-4, 6-4, 6-4.
This loss allowed Kuerten to be crowned year-end World No.
Agassi finished 2000 ranked World No.
Agassi, as injury forced him to skip the Australian Open, where he was a two-time defending champion.
The last duel between Agassi and Sampras came in the final of the U.S. Open.
The battle saw Sampras emerge victorious in four sets and left Sampras with a 20-14 edge in their 34 career meetings.
The match proved to be the last of Sampras's career.
In 2004, the 34-year-old Agassi won the Hamburg.
He became the second-oldest singles champion in Cincinnati tournament history (the tournament began in 1899), surpassed only by Ken Rosewall who won the title in 1970 at age 35.
Agassi's 2005 began with a quarterfinal loss to Federer at the Australian Open.
Agassi had several other deep runs at tournaments, but had to withdraw from several events due to injury.
He won his fourth title in Rogers Cup before falling to World No.
Before the 2005 Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai, Agassi rolled his ankle in a racquetball accident and tore several ligaments.
He was unable to walk for weeks.
He nevertheless committed to the tournament, in which he was seeded third, and played Nikolay Davydenko in his first round robin match.
Agassi's movement was noticeably hindered, particularly on his backhand return of serve, and he lost in straight sets.
He then withdrew from the tournament, to the criticism of the tournament director who had already dealt with several other withdrawals.
Agassi finished 2005 ranked No.
Connors for the most times ranked in the top 10 at year's end.
In 2005, Agassi left Nike after 17 years and signed an endorsement deal with Adidas.
Agassi had a poor start to 2006.
He was still recovering from an ankle injury and also suffering from back and leg pain and lack of match play.
Agassi withdrew from the Australian Open because of the ankle injury, and his back injury and other pains forced him to withdraw from several other events, eventually skipping the entire clay court season, including the French Open.
This caused his ranking to drop out of the top 10 for the last time.
Agassi returned for the grass court season, playing a tune-up and then Wimbledon.
At Wimbledon, Agassi announced his plans to retire following the U.S. Open.
Agassi had a short but dramatic run in his final U.S. Open.
Due to extreme back pain, Agassi was forced to receive anti-inflammatory injections after every match.
After a tough four-set win against Wimbledon semifinals, in the second round.
Agassi, nevertheless, won 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 5-7, 7-5 as the younger Baghdatis succumbed to muscle cramping in the final set.
In his last match, Agassi was in obvious pain on court and fell to 112th ranked big-serving memorable retirement speech.
Agassi dated famed American singer actress Brooke Shields on April 19, 1997.
That February, they had filed suit against "The National Enquirer" claiming it printed "false and fabricated" statements about the couple.
The case was dismissed.
He later filed for divorce from Shields, which was granted on April 9, 1999.
At the 1999 French Open, Agassi and Steffi Graf were the surprise champions, since he had not won a grand slam title since 1995 and she since 1996.
At the winners' ball, they danced the traditional champions dance.
After that evening they began dating.
Graf retired after they both reached the Wimbledon final in July.
They were married on October 22, 2001.
Their son, Jaden Gil, was born on October 26 the same year.
Their daughter, Jaz Elle, was born on October 3, 2003.
The couple live in the Las Vegas area and own several vacation homes.
Agassi's older sister, Rita, was married to the late former tennis legend Pancho Gonzales.
In 1995, when Gonzales died in Las Vegas, Agassi paid for the funeral.
Agassi has participated in many charity organizations and founded the Andre Agassi Charitable Association in 1994, which assists the youth of Las Vegas.
He was awarded the ATP Arthur Ashe Humanitarian award in 1995 for his efforts to help disadvantaged youth.
He is regularly cited as the most charitable and socially involved player in professional tennis.
Agassi's charity often takes the form of assisting children with their athletic potential.
His Boys & Girls Club sees 2,000 children throughout the year and boasts a world class junior tennis team.
It also has a basketball program (the Agassi Stars) and a rigorous system that encourages a mix of academics and athletics.
Series' only after the ATP took over the running of the men's tour in 1990.
Stockholm through 1994, Essen in 1995, and Stuttgart from 1996 through 2001.
Total wins!
As of September 18, 2006.
The "Austro-Asiatic languages" are a large Mon have a long recorded history, and only Vietnamese and Khmer have official status (in Vietnam and Cambodia, respectively).
The rest of the languages are spoken by minority groups.
India, Bangladesh and Southeast Asia, separated by regions where other languages are spoken.
It is widely believed that the Austro-Asiatic languages are the Austric superfamily.
Linguists traditionally recognize two primary divisions of Austro-Asiatic: the East and Central India and parts of Bangladesh.
However, no evidence for this classification has ever been published, and it is possible that the linguistic classification has been influenced by researchers' subjective perception of a racial dichotomy between the speakers of languages that have traditionally been classified as Mon-Khmer and those that have traditionally been classified as Munda.
Each of the families that is written in boldface type below is accepted as a valid clade.
However, the relationships between these families within Austro-Asiatic is debated; in addition to the traditional classification, two recent proposals are given, neither of which accept traditional Mon-Khmer as a valid unit.
It should be noted that little of the data used for competing classifications has ever been published, and therefore cannot be evaluated by peer review.
Peiros is a lexicostatistic classification, based on percentages of shared vocabulary.
This means that a language may appear to be more distantly related than it actually is due to language contact, so it is only a starting point for a proper genealogical classification.
Rather than counting cognates, Diffloth compares reconstructions of various clades, and attempts to classify them based on shared innovations.
India and Bangladesh.
Laos and Thailand.
Myanmar, southern China, and Thailand, plus Mang of Vietnam.
Vietnam and Laos, including the Vietnamese language, which has the most speakers of any Austro-Asiatic language.
These are the only Austro-Asiatic languages to have highly developed tone systems.
Nicobar Islands, a territory of India.
Malaysia and Thailand.
There are in addition several unclassified languages of southern China.
Other names sometimes given to this family include "Afrasian", "Hamito-Semitic", "Lisramic" (Hodge 1972), "Erythraean" (Tucker 1966).
The Semitic languages form the only Afro-Asiatic subfamily extant outside of Africa.
Medieval scholars sometimes linked two or more branches of Afro-Asiatic together; as early as the 9th century the Hebrew grammarian Judah ibn Quraysh of Tiaret in Algeria perceived a relationship between Berber and Semitic (the latter group known to him through Arabic, Hebrew, and Aramaic).
Little agreement exists on the sub-classification of the five or six branches mentioned; however, Harold Fleming (1981), and Joseph Greenberg (1981) all agree that the Omotic branch split from the rest first.
Prior to 1999: French franc and Spanish peseta.
Small amounts of Andorran diners (divided into 100 centim) were minted after 1982.
Earth, at an average of 83.52 years (2007 est).
Tradition holds that Charles the Great (Charlemagne) granted a charter to Andorran people in return for their fighting the Moors.
Overlordship of the territory passed to the local count of Urgell and eventually to the bishop of the diocese of Urgell.
In the eleventh century a dispute arose between the bishop and his northern neighbour over Andorra.
Andorra was briefly annexed to Aragon twice, in 1396 and 1512.
Over the years the title passed to the kings of Navarre.
After Henry of Navarre became King Henry IV of France, he issued an edict (1607) that established the head of the French state and the Bishop of Urgell as co-princes of Andorra.
Andorra declared war on Imperial Germany during World War I but did not actually take part in the fighting.
It remained in an official state of belligerency until 1957 as it was not included in the Versailles Peace Treaty.
In 1933 France occupied Andorra as a result of social unrest before elections.
On July 12, 1934, an adventurer named Boris Skossyreff issued a proclamation in Urgell, declaring himself Boris I, sovereign prince of Andorra, simultaneously declaring war on the bishop of Urgell.
He was arrested by Spanish authorities on July 20 and ultimately expelled from Spain.
From 1936 to 1940, a French detachment was garrisoned in Andorra to prevent influences of the Spanish Civil War and Franco's Spain.
Francoist troops reached the Andorran border in the later stages of the war.
During World War II, Andorra remained neutral and was an important smuggling route between Vichy France and Spain.
Given its relative isolation, Andorra has existed outside the mainstream of European history, with few ties to countries other than France and Spain.
In recent times, however, its thriving tourist industry along with developments in transportation and communications have removed the country from its isolation.
Its political system was thoroughly modernized in 1993, the year in which it became a member of the United Nations.
Andorra is a pluriform multi-party system.
Executive power is exercised by the government.
Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament.
The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Responsibility for defending Andorra rests with Spain and France.
Andorra currently has no military force.
Andorra's climate is similar to that of its neighbours' temperate climates, but its higher altitude means there is, on average, more snow in winter and it is slightly cooler in summer.
Some tobacco is grown locally.
The principal livestock activity is domestic sheep raising.
Manufacturing output consists mainly of cigarettes, cigars, and furniture.
Andorra's natural resources include hydroelectric power, mineral water, timber, iron ore, and lead.
Andorra is not a EU member for trade in manufactured goods (no tariffs) and as a non-EU member for agricultural products.
Andorra lacks a currency of its own and uses that of its two surrounding nations.
Prior to 1999 these were the French franc and the Spanish peseta, which have since been both replaced by the EU's single currency, the euro.
Andorrans are a minority in their own country; Italians resident in Andorra make up 67.7% of the population.
The national language is Council of Europe Framework Convention on National Minorities.
The population of Andorra is predominantly Roman Catholic.
The official and historic language is French are also commonly spoken.
Andorra's long history has provided it with a rich folklore and an abundance of folk tales, with roots originating as far as Andalusia in the south and the Netherlands in the north.
Andorran culture is Catalan in essence.
It has given a significant and easily identifiable contribution to the conglomerate of Catalan culture.
Andorra is home to folk dances like the Catalan in character, especially in the presence of dances like the sardana.
Andorra's national holiday is Our Lady of Meritxell Day, September 8.
The mean is rather the most commonly used type of average.
This misconception causes problems when people encounter other types of averages, such as the median, and they assume it's the arithmetic mean.
This behavior is sometimes deliberately exploited in an effort to mislead with statistics.
For this reason, it is important to distinguish the difference between 'mean' and 'average'.
When the mean is not an accurate estimate of the skewed.
This is the content of the law of large numbers.
As a result, the sample mean is used to estimate unknown expected values.
Equivalently, the mean is the best least squares fit of a constant function to the given data.
While the mean is often used to report central tendency, it may not be appropriate for describing skewed distributions, because it is easily misinterpreted.
The arithmetic mean is greatly influenced by outliers.
These distortions can occur when the mean is different from the median.
When this happens the median may be a better description of central tendency.
A classic example is average income.
The arithmetic mean may be misinterpreted to imply that most people's incomes are higher than is in fact the case.
When presented with an "average" one may be led to believe that "most" people's incomes are near this number.
In certain situations, the arithmetic mean is the wrong measure of central tendency altogether.
Particular care must be taken when using cyclic data such as phases or angles.
In general application such an oversight will lead to the average value artificially moving towards the middle of the numerical range.
A solution to this problem is to use the optimization formulation, and redefine the difference as a modular distance.
Since the merger, five expansion teams have joined the AFC and two have left, thus making the current total 16.
When the 2002 realignment.
The expansion Jacksonville Jaguars later joined the AFC in 1995.
When the Oilers left Houston in 1997, no arrangement similar to the Browns/Ravens was made to retain the franchise name.
As a result, when the league did eventually put a new AFC expansion team into Houston in 2002, it was named the Houston Texans.
The current 16 teams are organized into four divisions (North, South, East, and West) of four teams each.
Each team plays the other teams in their division twice (home and away) during the regular season in addition to 10 other games/teams assigned to their schedule by the NFL the previous May.
Two of these games are assigned on the basis of the team's final division standing in the previous season.
The remaining 8 games are split between the roster of two other NFL divisions.
This assignment shifts each year.
For instance, in the 2007 regular season, each team in the AFC West will play a game apiece against each team in both the AFC South and the NFC North.
In this way division competition consists of common opponents, with the exception of the 2 games assigned on the strength of each team's prior division standing.
The NFC operates according to the same system.
The losing coach of the AFC Championship game is the coach of the Pro Bowl the week after the Super Bowl.
Independent Labour Party for many years, was a critic of Josef Stalin, and was suspicious of Moscow-directed Stalinism after his experiences with the NKVD during the Spanish Civil War.
Including how the idea of utopia is seemingly impossible with the corruption of power.
The events and characters in Animal Farm parallel the early history of the Soviet Union; Orwell makes this explicit in the case of Napoleon, whom he directly connects to Stalin in a letter of 17 March 1945 to the publisher.
The other characters have their parallels in the real world, but care should be taken with these comparisons, as Orwell's intent was not always explicit and they often simply represent generalised concepts.
Revolution and the book.
According to one interpretation, he could be based upon both Karl Marx and Lenin.
As a socialist, George Orwell may have agreed with much of Marx, and even respected aspects of Lenin.
According to this interpretation, the satire in "Animal Farm" is not of Marxism, or of Lenin's revolution, but of the corruption that occurred later although very similar to it.
Hitchens goes on to agree, however, that in the book "the aims and principles of the Russian Revolution are given face-value credit throughout; this is a revolution betrayed, not a revolution that is monstrous from its inception".
Though Old Major is presented positively, Orwell does slip in some flaws, such as his admission that he has largely been free of the abuse the rest of the animals have had to suffer.
Napoleon begins to gradually build up his power, using puppies he took from mother dogs Jessie and Bluebell, which he raised to be vicious dogs as his secret police.
After driving Snowball off the farm, Napoleon usurps full power, using false propaganda from Squealer and threats and intimidation from the dogs to keep the other animals in line.
Among other things he gradually changes the Commandments to allow himself privileges and justify his dictatorial rule.
By the end of the book Napoleon and his fellow pigs have learned to walk upright and started to behave similar to humans.
Orwell modeled him after Joseph Stalin, who set up a dictatorship whose repression and despotism was far worse than that of the Imperial Russian government supplanted by the Bolsheviks.
He is inspired by Leon Trotsky.
He wins over most animals, but is driven out of the farm in the end by Napoleon.
His name is likely a reference to Trotsky's having been killed by one of Stalin's henchman with an ice pick.
He represents all the propaganda Stalin used to justify his actions.
In all of his work, George Orwell made it a point to show how politicians used language.
Squealer limits debate by complicating it, and he confuses and disorients, making claims that the pigs need the extra luxury they are taking in order to function properly, for example.
Stalin both inside and outside the USSR such as Maxim Gorky.
As Minimus composed the replacement of "Beasts of England", he may equate to the three main composers of the "National Anthem of the Soviet Union" which replaced "The Internationale" -- Gabriel El-Registan, Alexander Vasilyevich Alexandrov, and Sergey Mikhalkov.
Napoleon's food for poisoning.
The "Rebel Pigs" are pigs who complain about Napoleon's takeover of the farm but are quickly silenced and later executed.
This is based on the Great Purge during Stalin's regime.
The closest parallels to the Rebel Pigs may be Nikolai Bukharin, Alexei Rykov, Grigory Zinoviev, and Lev Kamenev.
Jones is a very heavy drinker and the animals revolt on him after he drinks so much that he does not feed them nor does he take care of them.
He represents Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party in general.
The card game at the very end of the novel is a metaphor for the Tehran Conference, where the parties flatter each other, all the while cheating at the game.
The irony in this last scene is present because of all of the Pigs being civil and kind to the humans, defying all for which they had fought.
This was present in the Tehran Conference with the Alliance that the Soviet Union formed with the United States and Britain; capitalist countries that the Soviet Union had fought in the early years of the revolution.
Napoleon to represent "Animal Farm" in human society.
He is loosely based on Western intellectuals such as George Bernard Shaw and, especially, Lincoln Steffens, who visited the U.S.S.R. in 1919.
He is the tragic avatar of the working class, or proletariat: loyal, kind, dedicated, and the most physically-strong animal on the farm, but naive and slow.
His ignorance and blind trust towards his leaders led to his death and their profit.
In particular, his heroic physical work represents the Stakhanovite movement.
His maxim of "I will work harder" is reminiscent of Jurgis Rudkus from the Upton Sinclair novel "The Jungle".
Boxer's friend and a fellow draft horse.
She helps and cares for Boxer when he splits his hoof.
She blames herself for forgetting the original Seven Commandments when Squealer revises them.
She is also upset when animals are executed by the dogs, and is held in great respect by three younger horses who ultimately replace Boxer.
Russian Revolution and effectively dominated the Russian diaspora.
Accordingly, she quickly leaves for another farm and is only once mentioned again.
The allegory that the book employs allows it to be read on a variety of different levels.
Orwell wrote the book following his experiences during the socialist ideals.
For the preface of a Ukrainian edition he prepared in 1947, Orwell described what gave him the idea of setting the book on a farm.
This Ukrainian edition was an early propaganda use of the book.
It was printed to be distributed among the Soviet citizens of Ukraine who were just some of the many millions of 1945 general election.
In recent years the book has been used to compare new movements that overthrow heads of a corrupt and undemocratic government or organization, only to eventually become corrupt and oppressive themselves as they succumb to the trappings of power and begin using violent and dictatorial methods to keep it.
Such analogies have been used for many former African colonies such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, whose succeeding African-born rulers were accused of being as corrupt as, or worse than, the European colonists they supplanted.
The book also clearly ponders whether a focus of power in one person is healthy for a society.
The book leaves the ending slightly ambiguous in this regard.
Perhaps the largest overriding theme in "Animal Farm" is the famous quote by Lord Acton, "Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely".
Orwell originally prepared a preface which complains about British government suppression of his book, self-imposed British self-censorship and how the British people were suppressing criticism of the USSR, their World War II ally.
References to the novella are frequent in other works of popular culture, particularly in popular music and television series.
Most amphibians do not have the adaptations to an entirely terrestrial existence found in most other modern tetrapods (amniotes).
There are around 6,200 described, living species of amphibians.
The study of amphibians and reptiles is known as herpetology.
Amphibians are able to breathe through their skin.
Of these only the last subclass includes recent species.
Authorities also disagree on whether Salientia is a Superorder that includes the order Anura, or whether Anura is a sub-order of the order Salientia.
Practical considerations seem to favour using the former arrangement now.
The Lissamphibia, superorder Salientia, are traditionally divided into three orders, but an extinct salamander-like family, the Albanerpetontidae, is now considered part of the Lissamphibia, besides the superorder Salientia.
The numbers of species cited above follow Frost.
For the purpose of tropical rainforests and their eggs hatch directly into miniature versions of the adult, passing through the tadpole stage within the egg.
Several species have also adapted to arid and semi-arid environments, but most of them still need water to lay their eggs.
Symbiosis with single celled algae that lives in the jelly-like layer of the eggs has evolved several times.
The larvae (tadpoles or polliwogs) breathe with exterior gills.
After hatching, they start to transform gradually into the adult's appearance.
This process is called metamorphosis.
Typically, the animals then leave the water and become terrestrial adults, but there are many interesting exceptions to this general way of reproduction.
The most obvious part of the amphibian metamorphosis is the formation of four legs in order to support the body on land.
Dramatic declines in amphibian populations, including population crashes and mass localized extinction, have been noted in the past two decades from locations all over the world, and amphibian declines are thus perceived as one of the most critical threats to global biodiversity.
A number of causes are believed to be involved, including habitat destruction and modification, over-exploitation, pollution, introduced species, climate change, destruction of the ozone layer (ultraviolet radiation has shown to be especially damaging to the skin, eyes, and eggs of amphibians), and diseases like chytridiomycosis.
However, many of the causes of amphibian declines are still poorly understood, and are a topic of ongoing discussion.
The first major groups of amphibians developed in the Devonian Period from fishes similar to the modern coelacanth where the fins had evolved into legs.
These amphibians were around five meters long in length, which is rare now except for some species of Japanese Salamander.
The land was safe as the giant fishes and sharks in the ocean could not come onto land.
However, there were two problems with living out their entire lives on land.
Primarily, the food that these amphibians consumed was in the water, but also at this point the skin on most of these amphibians was not water-tight.
In the Carboniferous Period, the amphibians moved up in the food chain and began to occupy the ecological position where we now find crocodiles.
These amphibians were notable for eating the mega-insects on land and many types of fishes in the water.
Towards the end of the Permian Period and the Triassic Period, the amphibians started having competition with proto-crocodiles which led to their drop in size in the temperate zones or leaving for the poles.
Alaska is one of two U.S. states not bordered by another state, Juneau to the rest of the state, the other one is Hawaii.
The state is bordered by the Yukon Territory and British Columbia, Canada to the east, the Gulf of Alaska and the Pacific Ocean to the south, the Bering Sea, Bering Strait, and Chukchi Sea to the west, and the Beaufort Sea and the Arctic Ocean to the north.
According to an October 1998 report by the national forests, national parks, and national wildlife refuges.
For statistical purposes the United States Census Bureau divides this territory into census areas.
Anchorage merged the city government with the Greater Anchorage Area Borough in 1971 to form the Municipality of Anchorage, containing the city proper and the bedroom communities of Eagle River, Chugiak, Peters Creek, Girdwood, Bird, and Indian.
Fairbanks has a separate borough (the Fairbanks North Star Borough) and municipality (the City of Fairbanks).
The climate of Anchorage and south central Alaska is mild by Alaskan standards due to the region's proximity to the seacoast.
While the area does not get nearly as much rain as southeast Alaska, it does get more snow, although days tend to be clearer.
The climate of Western Alaska is determined in large part by the Bering Sea and the Gulf of Alaska.
It is a subarctic oceanic climate in the southwest and a continental subarctic climate farther north.
The temperature is somewhat moderate considering how far north the area is.
This area has a tremendous amount of variety in precipitation.
The climate of the interior of Alaska is best described as extreme and is the best example of a true subarctic climate.
Some of the hottest and coldest temperatures in Alaska occur around the area near Fairbanks.
At the end of the Russian explorers, the area was populated by Alaska Native groups.
The first European contact with Alaska occurred in the year 1741, when Alaskan purchase in 1867 for $7.2 million.
In the 1890s, gold rushes in Alaska and the nearby Yukon Territory brought thousands of miners and settlers to Alaska.
Alaska was granted territorial status in 1912.
Alaska was granted statehood on January 3, 1959.
In 1964, the massive "Good Friday Earthquake" killed 131 people and leveled several villages.
The 1968 discovery of oil at Prudhoe Bay and the 1977 completion of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline led to an oil boom.
According to the Norwegian (4.2%).
The vast sparsely-populated regions of northern and western Alaska are primarily inhabited by Alaska Natives, who are also numerous in the southeast.
Anchorage, Fairbanks, and other parts of south-central and southeast Alaska have many whites of northern and western European ancestry.
The Wrangell-Petersburg area has many residents of Scandinavian ancestry and the Aleutians contain a large Filipino population.
Most of the state's black population lives in Anchorage.
Fairbanks also has a sizable black population.
According to the indigenous languages, known locally as Native languages.
Alaska has been identified, along with Pacific Northwest states Washington and Oregon, as being the least religious in the US.
According to statistics collected by the Association of Religion Data Archives, only about 39% of Alaska residents were members of religious congregations.
Evangelical Protestants had 78,070 members, Roman Catholics had 54,359, and mainline Protestants had 37,156.
After Catholics, the largest single denominations were Southern Baptists with 22, 959, Orthodox with 20,000, and Mormons with 19,019.
The large Eastern Orthodox population is a result of early Jews in Alaska.
The 2005 3rd in the nation.
Alaska's economy relies heavily on petroleum extraction, with more than 80% of the state's revenues derived from this industry.
Alaska's main export product (excluding oil and natural gas) is seafood, primarily salmon, cod, pollock and crab.
Agriculture represents only a fraction of the Alaska economy.
Agricultural production is primarily for consumption within the state and includes nursery stock, dairy products, vegetables, and livestock.
Manufacturing is limited, with most foodstuffs and general goods imported from elsewhere.
Employment is primarily in government and industries such as natural resource extraction, shipping, and transportation.
Military bases are a significant component of the economy in both Fairbanks and Anchorage.
Its industrial outputs are crude petroleum, natural gas, coal, gold, precious metals, zinc and other mining, seafood processing, timber and wood products.
There is also a growing service and tourism sector.
Tourists have contributed to the economy by supporting local lodging.
The Alaska Permanent Fund is a legislatively-controlled appropriation established in 1976 to manage a surplus in state petroleum revenues from the recently constructed Trans-Alaska Pipeline System.
From its initial principal of $734,000, the fund has grown to $38 billion as a result of oil royalties and capital investment programs.
Starting in 1982, dividends from the fund's annual growth have been paid out each year to eligible Alaskans, ranging from $331.29 in 1984 to $1963.86 in 2000.
The cost of goods in Alaska has long been higher than in the contiguous 48 states.
This has changed for the most part in Fairbanks, where the cost of living has dropped somewhat in the past five years.
Federal Government employees, particularly United States Postal Service (USPS) workers and active-duty military members, receive a Cost Of Living Allowance usually set at 25% of base pay because, while the cost of living has gone down, it is still one of the highest in the country.
The introduction of big-box stores in Anchorage, Fairbanks (Wal-Mart in March of 2004), and Juneau also did much to lower prices.
However, rural Alaska suffers from extremely high prices for food and consumer goods, compared to the rest of the country due to the relatively limited transportation infrastructure.
Many rural residents come in to these cities and purchase food and goods in bulk from warehouse clubs like Costco and Sam's Club.
Some have embraced the free shipping offers of some online retailers to purchase items much more cheaply than they could in their own communities, if they are available at all.
Alaska has the lowest individual tax burden in the US , and is one of only six states with no state sales tax and one of seven states that do not levy an individual income tax.
To finance state government operations, Alaska depends primarily on petroleum revenues.
While Alaska has no state sales tax, 89 municipalities collect a local sales tax, from 1% to 7%, typically 3% to 5%.
Alaska has few road connections compared to the rest of the U.S.
The tunnel is the longest combination road and rail tunnel in North America.
The Palmer (locally known as "The Railbelt").
The railroad is famous for its summertime passenger services and also plays a vital part in moving Alaska's natural resources, such as coal and gravel, to ports in Anchorage, Whittier, and Seward.
The Alaska Railroad was one of the last railroads in North America to use cabooses in regular service and still uses them on certain gravel trains, and it offers one of the last flag stop routes in the country.
Most cities and villages in the state are accessible only by sea or air.
Alaska has a well-developed Prince of Wales Island region of Southeast and works in concert with the Alaska Marine Highway.
Tourist sea travel is also popular on Alaska cruises.
Cities not served by road or sea can be reached only by air, accounting for Alaska's extremely well-developed many major airlines.
Air travel is the cheapest and most efficient form of transportation in and out of the state.
Anchorage recently completed extensive remodeling and construction at Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport to help accommodate the upsurge in tourism (in 2000-2001, the latest year for which data is available, 2.4 million total arrivals to Alaska were counted, 1.7 million via air travel; 1.4 million were visitors ).
Regular flights to most villages and towns within the state are commercially challenging to provide.
Lake Hood, located next to Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport, where flights bound for remote villages without an airstrip carry passengers, cargo, and lots of items from stores and warehouse clubs.
Alaska has the highest number of pilots per capita of any U.S. state: out of the estimated 663,661 residents, 8,550 are pilots, or about one in 78.
Alaska has the longest runway in the world as the entire length of the Richardson Highway is designated an emergency landing strip.
Another Alaskan transportation method is the Nome when all other means of transportation had failed.
Mushers from all over the world come to Anchorage each March to compete for cash prizes and prestige.
In areas not served by road or rail, primary transportation in summer is by all-terrain vehicle and in winter by snowmobile or "snow machine," as it is commonly referred to in Alaska.
Alaska is often described as a 2004 by a margin of 25 percentage points with 61.1% of the vote.
The city of Juneau and Midtown Anchorage are strongholds of the Democratic party.
Borough and South Anchorage typically have the strongest Republican showing.
As of 2004, well over half of all registered voters choose "Non-Partisan" or "Undeclared" as their affiliation , despite recent attempts to close primaries.
Alaska possesses a pervasively strong independence movement favoring secession from the US, with the Alaskan Independence Party labeled one of the "the most significant state-level third parties operating in the 20th century".
The Wally Hickel was elected to the office for a second term in 1990 after jumping the Republican ship and briefly joining the Alaskan Independence Party ticket just long enough to be reelected.
He subsequently officially rejoined the Republican fold in 1994.
Alaska's court system has four levels: the Alaska Supreme Court, the court of appeals, the superior courts and the district courts.
The superior and district courts are trial courts.
Superior courts are courts of general jurisdiction, while district courts only hear certain types of cases, including misdemeanor criminal cases and civil cases valued up to $100,000.
The supreme court and the court of appeals are appellate courts.
The court of appeals is required to hear appeals from certain lower-court decisions, including those regarding criminal prosecutions, juvenile delinquency, and habeas corpus.
The supreme court hears civil appeals and may in its discretion hear criminal appeals.
Local political communities often work on issues related to land use development, Native corporations which have been given ownership over large tracts of land, and thus need to deliberate resource conservation and development issues.
Alaska's most populous city is largest cities in the U.S. by area.
Alaska has many smaller towns, especially in the Alaska Bush, the portion of the state that is inaccessible by road.
The Alaska Department of Education and Early Development administers many Galena.
There are more than a dozen colleges and universities in Alaska.
Accredited universities in Alaska include the University of Alaska Anchorage, University of Alaska Fairbanks, University of Alaska Southeast, Sheldon Jackson College and Alaska Pacific University.
Alaska has long had a problem with alcohol use and abuse.
Many rural communities in Alaska have outlawed its import.
This problem directly relates to Alaska's high rate of Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) as well as contributing to the high rate of suicides.
This is a controversial topic for many residents.
Alaska has also had a problem with "brain drain" as many of its young people, including most of the highest academic achievers, leave the state upon graduating high school.
While for many this functions as a sort of walkabout, many do not return to the state.
Alaska is also the only state to allow legal possession of marijuana: an adult may possess four ounces for personal use.
Some of Alaska's popular annual events are the World Ice Art Championships in Wrangell.
The Stikine River features the largest springtime concentration of American Bald Eagles in the world.
The Alaska Native Heritage Center celebrates the rich heritage of Alaska's 11 cultural groups.
Their purpose is to enhance self-esteem among Native people and to encourage cross-cultural exchanges among all people.
Due to the northern climate and steep terrain, relatively little farming occurs in Alaska.
Most farms are in either the Mat-Su Valley near Anchorage, or on the Kenai Peninsula.
The short summer limits the types of crops that can be grown - primary crops are potatoes, carrots, lettuce, and cabbage.
But the long days of summer can allow these vegetables to reach record size.
Alaska has an abundance of seafood, with the primary fisheries in the Bering Sea, and seafood is one of the few food items that is often cheaper within the state than outside it.
Hunting for subsistence, primarily Bush communities.
An example of a traditional native food is Akutaq, the Eskimo ice cream, consisting of reindeer fat and seal oil and some berries.
Most food in Alaska is transported into the state from outside, and is relatively expensive due to the high shipping costs.
Influences on music in Alaska include the traditional music of flautist Mary Youngblood, folk singer-songwriter Libby Roderick, the group Pamyua, and the metal band 36 Crazyfists.
There are many established music festivals in Alaska, including the Alaska Folk Festival, the Fairbanks Winter Music Fest the Anchorage Folk Festival, the Athabascan Old-Time Fiddling Festival, and the Sitka Summer Music Festival.
The most prominent symphony in Alaska is the Anchorage Symphony Orchestra, though the Juneau Symphony is also notable.
The Anchorage Opera is currently the state's only professional opera company, though there are several volunteer and semi-professional organizations in the state as well.
The official state song of Alaska is "Alaska's Flag", which was adopted in 1955; it celebrates the flag of Alaska.
One of the most prominent movies filmed in Alaska was Oscar for Best Film Editing at the Academy Awards, for forever preserving Inupiat culture on film, and for being the first motion picture to be filmed in an all native language (Inupiat).
Please do not add commercial links to this section - they will be removed, as per the external links policy.
Agriculture played a key role in the development of human mechanization, have greatly increased crop yields in the early 20th century.
Increased supply of grains has led to cheaper livestock as well.
Further, global yield increases were experienced later in the 20th century when high-yield varieties of common staple grains such as rice, wheat, and corn were introduced as a part of the Green Revolution.
The Green Revolution exported the technologies (including pesticides and synthetic nitrogen) of the developed world out to the developing world.
Thomas Malthus famously predicted that the Earth would not be able to support its growing population, but technologies such as the Green Revolution have allowed the world to produce a surplus of food.
Many governments have subsidized agriculture to ensure an adequate food supply.
The growth of organic farming has renewed research in alternative technologies such as integrated pest management and selective breeding.
Recent mainstream technological developments include genetically modified food.
Agricultural practices lie on a spectrum dependent upon the intensity and technology of the methods.
At the one end lies the mechanization.
These operations achieve economies of scale and require large amounts of capital in the form of land and machinery.
The twentieth century saw changes in agricultural practice, particularly in agricultural chemistry and in mechanization.
Agricultural chemistry includes the application of chemical fertilizer, chemical insecticides (see pest control), and chemical fungicides, analysis of soil makeup and nutritional needs of farm animals.
Mechanization has increased farm efficiency and productivity in most regions of the world, due especially to the combine (see agricultural machinery).
According to the National Academy of Engineering in the United States, agricultural mechanization is one of the 20 greatest engineering achievements of the 20th century.
Early in the century, it took one American farmer to produce food for 2.5 people.
By 1999, due to advances in agricultural technology, a single farmer could feed over 130 people.
Other recent changes in agriculture include herbicide-resistant plants.
Genetic engineers at companies such as conservation and sanitary engineering, particularly important in normally arid areas which rely upon constant irrigation, and on large scale farms.
The processing, packing and marketing of agricultural products are closely related activities also influenced by science.
Methods of quick-freezing and dehydration have increased the markets for many farm products (see food preservation and meat packing industry).
Animals, including horses, mules, oxen, camels, llamas, alpacas, and dogs, are often used to help cultivate wrangle other animals, and transport farm products to buyers.
Animal husbandry not only refers to the breeding and raising of animals for meat or to harvest animal products (like milk, eggs, or wool) on a continual basis, but also to the breeding and care of species for work and companionship.
Airplanes, helicopters, trucks, tractors, and combines are used in Western (and, increasingly, Eastern) agriculture for seeding, spraying operations for insect and disease control, harvesting, aerial topdressing and transporting perishable products.
Radio and television disseminate vital weather reports and other information such as market reports that concern farmers.
Computers have become an essential tool for farm management.
In recent years, some aspects of intensive industrial agriculture have been the subject of increasing debate.
The widening sphere of influence held by large seed and chemical companies, meat packers and food processors has been a source of concern both within the farming community and for the general public.
Another issue is the type of feed given to some animals that can cause bovine spongiform encephalopathy in cattle.
There has also been concern over the effect of intensive agriculture on the environment.
The patent protection given to companies that develop new types of seed using genetic engineering has allowed seed to be licensed to farmers in much the same way that computer software is licensed to users.
This has changed the balance of power in favor of the seed companies, allowing them to dictate terms and conditions previously unheard of.
The Indian activist and scientist Vandana Shiva argues that these companies are guilty of biopiracy.
Increasing consumer awareness of agricultural issues has led to the rise of community-supported agriculture, local food movement, "Slow Food", and commercial organic farming.
Developed independently by geographically distant populations, systematic agriculture first appeared in emmer and einkorn wheat, then hulled barley, peas, lentils, bitter vetch, chick peas and flax.
By azuki and taro.
To complement these new sources of carbohydrates, highly organized net fishing of rivers, lakes and ocean shores in these areas brought in great volumes of essential protein.
Collectively, these new methods of farming and fishing inaugurated a human population boom dwarfing all previous expansions, and is one that continues today.
By labour force, particularly along the waterway now known as the Shatt al-Arab, from its Persian Gulf delta to the confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates.
Domestication of wild aurochs and mouflon into cattle and sheep, respectively, ushered in the large-scale use of animals for food/fiber and as beasts of burden.
The shepherd joined the farmer as an essential provider for sedentary and semi-nomadic societies.
In later years, the Macedonians struggled with very poor soils, yet managed to become dominant societies for years.
The Romans were noted for an emphasis on the cultivation of crops for trade.
During the Middle Ages, Muslim farmers in North Africa and the Near East developed and disseminated agricultural technologies including irrigation systems based on norias, and the use of water raising machines, dams, and reservoirs.
They also wrote location-specific farming manuals, and were instrumental in the wider adoption of crops including sugar cane, rice, citrus fruit, apricots, cotton, artichokes, aubergines, and saffron.
Muslims also brought lemons, oranges, cotton, almonds, figs and sub-tropical crops such as bananas to Spain.
The invention of a moldboard plow, vastly improved agricultural efficiency.
After 1492, a global exchange of previously local crops and livestock breeds occurred.
Key crops involved in this exchange included the tomato, maize, potato, cocoa and tobacco going from the New World to the Old, and several varieties of wheat, spices, coffee, and sugar cane going from the Old World to the New.
The most important animal exportations from the Old World to the New were those of the horse and dog (dogs were already present in the pre-Columbian Americas but not in the numbers and breeds suited to farm work).
Although not usually food animals, the horse (including donkeys and ponies) and dog quickly filled essential production roles on western hemisphere farms.
By the early 1800s, agricultural techniques, implements, seed stocks and mechanization in the late 19th and 20th centuries, particularly in the form of the tractor, farming tasks could be done with a speed and on a scale previously impossible.
These advances have led to efficiencies enabling certain modern farms in the United States, Argentina, Israel, Germany, and a few other nations to output volumes of high quality produce per land unit at what may be the practical limit.
In 2005, the agricultural output of China was the largest in the world, accounting for almost one-sixth world share followed by the EU, India and the USA, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Specific crops are cultivated in distinct FAO estimates.
Domestication of plants has, over the centuries increased yield, improved disease resistance and drought tolerance, eased harvest and improved the taste and nutritional value of crop plants.
Careful selection and breeding have had enormous effects on the characteristics of crop plants.
Plant breeders use greenhouses (known as glasshouses or hothouses in some areas) and other techniques to get as many as three generations of plants per year towards the continued effort of improvement.
Plant selection and breeding in the 1920s and 1930s improved pasture (grasses and clover) in New Zealand.
For example, average yields of corn (maize) in the USA have increased from around 2.5 tons per hectare (t/ha) (40 bushels per acre) in 1900 to about 9.4 t/ha (150 bushels per acre) in 2001.
Similarly, worldwide average wheat yields have increased from less than 1 t/ha in 1900 to more than 2.5 t/ha in 1990.
South American average wheat yields are around 2 t/ha, African under 1 t/ha, Egypt and Arabia up to 3.5 to 4 t/ha with irrigation.
In contrast, the average wheat yield in countries such as France is over 8 t/ha.
Variation in yields are due mainly to variation in climate, genetics, and the level of intensive farming techniques (use of fertilizers, chemical pest control, growth control to avoid lodging).
After mechanical tomato-harvesters were developed in the early 1960s, agricultural scientists bred tomatoes that were more resistant to mechanical handling.
This, in contrast, requires fewer insecticides to be applied to the crop.
The farming practices of livestock vary dramatically world-wide and between different types of animals.
Livestock are generally kept in an enclosure, are fed by human-provided food and are intentionally bred, but some livestock are not enclosed, or are fed by access to natural foods, or are allowed to breed freely, or all three.
Approximately 68% of all agricultural land is used in the production of livestock as permanent pastures.
According to the United Nations, the livestock sector (primarily cows, chickens, and pigs) emerges as one of the top two or three most significant contributors to our most serious environmental problems, at every scale from local to global.
Livestock production occupies 70% of all land used for agriculture, or 30% of the land surface of the planet.
The main factor, however, is the replacement of local varieties of domestic plants and animals by high yielding or exotic varieties or species.
A large number of varieties can also often be dramatically reduced when commercial varieties (including GMOs) are introduced into traditional farming systems.
Many researchers believe that the main problem related to agro-ecosystem management is the general tendency towards genetic and ecological uniformity imposed by the development of modern agriculture.
In agriculture and hybridization to increase yield many folds by creating "high-yielding varieties".
Often the handful of breeds of plants and animals hybridized originated in developed countries and were further hybridized with local varieties in the rest of the developing world to create high yield strains resistant to local climate and diseases.
Hybridization of local breeds to improve performance may lead to the loss of the local breed over time and consequently the loss of the genetic material that adapted that breed specifically to the local conditions.
When viewed across the world as a whole, the consequent loss in genetic diversity and biodiversity could be placing the food supply in jeopardy, as a highly specialized breed may not contain sufficient genetic material to adapt to new diseases or environments even with an intensive breeding program.
A altered using the genetic engineering techniques generally known as recombinant DNA technology.
Genetically Modified (GM) crops today have become a common source for genetic pollution, not only of wild varieties but also of other domesticated varieties derived from relatively natural hybridization.
Since the 1940s, agriculture has dramatically increased its productivity, due largely to the use of petrochemical derived pesticides, fertilizers, and increased mechanization.
This has allowed world population to grow more than double over the last 50 years.
Every energy unit delivered in food grown using modern techniques requires over ten energy units to produce and deliver.
The vast majority of this energy input comes from fossil fuel sources.
Farmers have also begun raising crops such as corn for non-food use in an effort to help mitigate peak oil.
Agriculture ranks among the most hazardous industries.
Farmers are at high risk for fatal and nonfatal injuries, work-related lung diseases, noise-induced hearing loss, skin diseases, and certain cancers associated with chemical use and prolonged sun exposure.
Farming is one of the few industries in which the families (who often share the work and live on the premises) are also at risk for injuries, illness, and death.
Agriculture is the most dangerous industry for young workers, accounting for 42% of all work-related fatalities of young workers in the U.S. between 1992 and 2000.
Unlike other industries, half the young victims in agriculture were under age 15.
Aldous Huxley was born in biologist.
Following his education at Balliol, Huxley was financially indebted to his father and had to earn a living.
Huxley completed his first (unpublished) novel at the age of seventeen and began writing seriously in his early twenties.
Matthias Alexander and included him as a character in "Eyeless in Gaza".
The family lived in Italy part of the time in the 1920s, where Huxley would visit his friend D. H. Lawrence.
Following Lawrence's death in 1930, he edited his letters (1933).
In 1937, Huxley moved to Prabhavananda, and introduced Christopher Isherwood to this circle.
Not long after, Huxley wrote his book on widely held spiritual values and ideas, "The Perennial Philosophy", which discussed the teachings of renowned mystics of the world.
Aldous Huxley was close friends with Occidental College president Remsen Bird during Huxley's time living in Southern California.
Huxley also incorporated Bird into the novel.
However, his experience in Hollywood was not a success.
When he wrote a synopsis of "Alice in Wonderland", Walt Disney rejected it on the grounds that "he could only understand every third word".
Huxley's leisurely development of ideas, it seemed, was not suitable for the movie moguls, who demanded fast, dynamic dialogue above all else.
For most of his life since the illness in his teens which left Huxley nearly blind, his eyesight was poor (despite the partial recovery which had enabled him to study at Oxford).
Around 1939, Huxley encountered the Bates Method for better eyesight, and a teacher (Margaret Corbett) who was able to teach him in the method.
He reported that for the first time in over 25 years, he was able to read without glasses and without strain.
He even tried driving a car along the dirt road beside the ranch.
He wrote a book about his successes with the Bates Method, "The Art of Seeing" which was published in 1942 (US), 1943 (UK).
However, while Huxley undoubtedly believed his vision had improved, other evidence suggests that Huxley may have been fooling himself.
He wasn't reading his address&mdash;he had learned it by heart.
To refresh his memory he brought it closer and closer to his eyes.
When it was only an inch away he still couldn't read it, and had to fish for a magnifying glass in his pocket to make the typing visible to him.
On 21 October 1949 Huxley wrote to George Orwell, author of "Nineteen Eighty-Four", congratulating Orwell on "how fine and how profoundly important the book is".
After World War II Huxley applied for Macmillan government.
During the 1950s, Huxley's interest in the field of rock band, The Doors.
Some of his writings on psychedelics became frequent reading among early hippies.
While living in Los Angeles, Huxley was a friend of Ray Bradbury.
According to Sam Weller's biography of Bradbury, the latter was dissatisfied with Huxley, especially after Huxley encouraged Bradbury to take psychedelic drugs.
In 1955 Huxley's wife, Maria, died of Laura Archera, who was herself an author and who wrote a biography of Huxley.
In 1959 Aldous Huxley received the American Academy of Arts and Letters Award of Merit for the Novel.
Matthew's first marriage, to documentary filmmaker Ellen Hovde, ended in divorce.
His second wife died in 1983.
Victorian and Edwardian social principles which led to World War I and its terrible aftermath.
Together with Huxley's second novel, "Antic Hay" (1923), the book expresses much of the mood of disenchantment of the early 1920s.
Huxley's reputation for iconoclasm and emancipation grew.
He was condemned for his explicit discussion of sex and free thought in his fiction.
Cairo and in the years that followed many of Huxley's books were received with disapproval or banned at one time or another.
Following the exclusion of Island from Time magazine's list of 'All-Time 100 Novels' there was uproar.
He devoted his time at his small house at Llano in the Mojave Desert, Southern California to a life of contemplation, mysticism and experimentation with hallucinogenic drugs.
His suggestions in "The Doors of Perception" (1954) that mescalin and lysergic acid were 'drugs of unique distinction' which should be exploited for the 'supernaturally brilliant' visionary experience they offered provoked even more outrage than his passionate defence of the Bates method in "The Art of Seeing" (1942).
The book also influenced rock musician Jim Morrison to name his band The Doors.
Commented out because image was deleted: Island - 1964 Penguin paperback edition.
Algae lack phagotrophy.
Some unicellular species rely entirely on external energy sources and have reduced or lost their photosynthetic apparatus.
All algae have photosynthetic machinery ultimately derived from the respiration.
Algae are most prominent in bodies of water, but are also common in terrestrial environments.
However, terrestrial algae are usually rather inconspicuous and far more common in moist, on snow and on exposed rocks in symbiosis with a fungus as lichen.
The various sorts of algae play significant roles in aquatic ecology.
In very high densities (so-called algal blooms) these algae may discolor the water and outcompete, poison, or asphyxiate other life forms.
The study of marine and freshwater algae is called phycology or algology.
Rather than in chloroplasts, they conduct photosynthesis on specialized infolded cytoplasmic membranes called thylakoid membranes.
Therefore, they differ significantly from the algae despite occupying similar ecological niches.
By modern definitions algae are endosymbionts.
The exact nature of the chloroplasts is different among the different lines of algae, reflecting different endosymbiotic events.
The table below lists the three major groups of algae and their lineage relationship is shown in the figure on the left.
Note many of these groups contain some members that are no longer photosynthetic.
Some retain plastids, but not chloroplasts, while others have lost them entirely.
Supergroup affiliation!
The chloroplasts of red algae have chlorophylls "a" and "d" (often), and phycobilins, while those of the green alga have chloroplasts with chlorophyll "a" and "b".
Higher plants are pigmented similarly to green algae and probably developed from them, and thus Chlorophyta is a sister taxon to the plants; sometimes they are grouped as Viridiplantae.
In three lines even higher levels of organization have been reached, with full tissue differentiation.
These probably had an isomorphic alternation of generations and were probably heterotrichous.
Some species of algae form symbiotic relationships with other organisms.
In these symbioses, the algae supply photosynthates (organic substances) to the host organism providing protection to the algal cells.
The host organism derives some or all of its energy requirements from the algae.
In the British Isles the UK Biodiversity Steering Group Report estimated there to be 20,000 algal species in the UK, freshwater and marine, about 650 of these are seaweeds.
Another checklist of freshwater algae reported only about 5000 species.
It seems therefore that the 20,000 is an overestimate or an error (John, 2002 p.1).
Around 400 species appear to be an average figure for the coastline of South African west coast.
Britain and Ireland (Hardy and Guiry, 2006).
No publication has been found which attempts to discuss the general distribution of algae in the seas world-wide.
However, notes and comments have been made by some authors.
The floristic discontinuities may appear to determined by geographical features such as Antarctica, long distances of ocean or general land masses.
However, the distances between Norway, the Faroes and Iceland do not show great changes in distribution.
There has been dispersal in some species by ships, water currents and the like, further some algae drifting algae can quickly become entangled and easily drift.
Pacific but has also invaded Europe.
Algae are used by humans in many ways.
They are used as fertilizers, soil conditioners and are a source of livestock feed.
Because many species are aquatic and microscopic, they are cultured in clear tanks or ponds and either harvested or used to treat effluents pumped through the ponds.
Algaculture on a large scale is an important type of aquaculture in some places.
Chemical analysis of maerl showed that it contained 32.1% CaCO3 and 3.1% MgCO3 (dry weight).
The name carrageenan comes from the Irish Gaelic for "Chondrus crispus".
It is an excellent stabiliser in milk products - it reacts with the milk protein caesin, other products include: petfoods, toothpaste, ice-creams and lotions etc.
Alginates in creams and lotions are absorbable through the skin.
Algae is commercially cultivated as a nutritional supplement.
Roughly 20 species of algae are used in everyday cooking in Japan.
In Ireland it is collected and made into a jelly by stewing or boiling.
Preparation also involves frying with fat or converting to a pinkish jelly by heating the fronds in a saucepan with a little water and beating with a fork.
It is also collected and used by people parts of Asia, specifically China and Japan as nori and along most of the coast from California to British Columbia.
The Hawaiians and the Maoris of New Zealand also use it.
Scotland where it is added to soups or used in salads.
The oil from some algae have high levels of unsaturated fatty acids.
The algae are eaten by smaller marine life such as copepods, "and those are eaten by slightly larger fish," says Lippmeier.
The DHA gets passed along the food chain, all the way up to the biggest fish, but the original source is the algae.
There are also commercial uses of algae as agar.
Some Cosmetics can come from microalgae as well.
In Israel, a species of green algae is grown in water tanks, then exposed to direct sunlight and heat which causes it to become bright red in color.
Seaweed specimens can be collected and preserved for research.
Such preserved specimens will keep for two or three hundred years.
The ecology of the shores of the British Isles, including a discussion of the different shores from sheltered to exposed along with an exposure scale, is given by Lewis (1964).
There are three conceptual classes of such models: #normal populations which may differ only in their means.
F = t squared.
The fixed-effects model of analysis of variance applies to situations in which the experimenter applies several treatments to the subjects of the experiment to see if the response variable values change.
This allows the experimenter to estimate the range of response variable values that the treatment would generate in the population as a whole.
Random effects models are used when the treatments are not fixed.
This occurs when the various treatments (also known as factor levels) are sampled from a larger population.
Because the treatments themselves are random variables, some assumptions and the method of contrasting the treatments differ from Anova model 1.
Most random-effects or mixed-effects models are not concerned with making inferences concerning the particular sampled factors.
For example, consider a large manufacturing plant in which many machines produce the same product.
The statistician studying this plant would have very little interest in comparing the three particular machines to each other.
Anova 2 and 3 have more complex assumptions about the expected value and variance of the residuals since the factors themselves may be drawn from a population.
The fundamental technique is a partitioning of the total sum of squares into components related to the effects used in the model.
For example, we show the model for a simplified ANOVA with one type of treatment at different levels.
The number of degrees of freedom (abbreviated df) can be partitioned in a similar way and specifies the chi-square distribution which describes the associated sums of squares.
The F-test is used for comparisons of the components of the total deviation.
A variant of rank-transformation is 'quantile normalization' in which a further transformation is applied to the ranks such that the resulting values have some defined distribution (often a normal distribution with a specified mean and variance).
Further analyses of quantile-normalized data may then assume that distribution to compute significance values.
Source for measure was taken from the following article in the data analysis section.
Group A is given vodka, Group B is given gin, and Group C is given a placebo.
All groups are then tested with a memory task.
A "one-way ANOVA" can be used to assess the effect of the various treatments (that is, the vodka, gin, and placebo).
Group A is given vodka and tested on a memory task.
The same group is allowed a rest period of five days and then the experiment is repeated with gin.
The procedure is repeated using a placebo.
A "one-way ANOVA with repeated measures" can be used to assess the effect of the vodka versus the impact of the placebo.
Each group is then tested on a memory task.
The advantage of this design is that multiple variables can be tested at the same time instead of running two different experiments.
Also, the experiment can determine whether one variable affects the other variable (known as interaction effects).
Alkanes belong to a homologous series of organic compounds in which the members differ by a constant relative atomic mass of 14.
Each carbon atom must have 4 bonds (either C-H or C-C bonds), and each hydrogen atom must be joined to a carbon atom (H-C bonds).
A series of linked carbon atoms is known as the carbon skeleton or carbon backbone.
An alkyl group is a functional group or side-chain that, like an alkane, consists solely of singly-bonded carbon and hydrogen atoms, for example a methyl or ethyl group.
The simplest possible alkane (the parent molecule) is saturated, and is a hydrocarbon.
Saturated oils and waxes are examples of larger alkanes where the number of carbons in the carbon backbone tends to be greater than 10.
Alkanes are not very reactive and have little biological activity.
Alkanes can be viewed as a molecular scaffold upon which can be hung the interesting biologically-active/reactive portions (functional groups) of the molecule.
Alkanes with more than three carbon atoms can be arranged in a multiple number of ways, forming different structural isomers.
An isomer is like a chemical anagram, in which the atoms of a chemical compound are arranged or joined together in a different order.
The simplest isomer of an alkane is the one in which the carbon atoms are arranged in a single chain with no branches.
In addition to these isomers, the chain of carbon atoms may form one or more loops.
Such compounds are called cycloalkanes.
The IUPAC nomenclature (systematic way of naming compounds) for alkanes is based on identifying hydrocarbon chains.
It is difficult or impossible to find compounds with more than one IUPAC name.
This is because shorter chains attached to longer chains are prefixes and the convention includes brackets.
Symmetric compounds will have two ways of arriving at the same name.
For a more complete list, see List of alkanes.
Common name!
They are hydrocarbons just like alkanes, but are containing one or more rings.
It is almost certain that the term paraffin stems from the petrochemical industry.
The most important commercial sources for alkanes are anoxic environment and converted over many millions of years at high temperatures and high pressure to their current form.
These hydrocarbons collected in porous rocks, located beneath an impermeable cap rock and so are trapped.
Solid alkanes are known as evaporate from hydrocarbon deposits.
One of the largest natural deposits of solid alkanes is in the asphalt lake known as the Pitch Lake in Trinidad and Tobago.
Methane is also present in what is called biogas, produced by animals and decaying matter, which is a possible renewable energy source.
Although alkanes occur in nature in various way, they do not rank biologically among the essential materials.
On the other hand, certain oxidised organic compounds.
Alkanes also play a role, if a minor role, in the biology of the three fungi, plants and animals.
In plants, it is the solid long-chain alkanes that are found; they form a firm layer of wax, the cuticle, over areas of the plant exposed to the air.
This protects the plant against water loss, while preventing the leaching of important minerals by the rain.
It is also a protection against bacteria, fungi, and harmful insects &mdash; the latter sink with their legs into the soft waxlike substance and have difficulty moving.
The shining layer on fruits such as apples consists of long-chain alkanes.
The carbon chains are usually between twenty and thirty carbon atoms in length and are made by the plants from fatty acids.
The exact composition of the layer of wax is not only species-dependent, but changes also with the season and such environmental factors as lighting conditions, temperature or humidity.
Alkanes are found in animal products, although they are less important than unsaturated hydrocarbons.
As stated earlier, the most important source of alkanes is natural gas and crude oil.
The Fischer-Tropsch process is a method to synthesize liquid hydrocarbons, including alkanes, from carbon monoxide and hydrogen.
This method is used to produce substitutes for petroleum distillates.
There is usually little need for alkanes to be synthesized in the laboratory, since they are usually commercially available.
Also, alkanes are generally non-reactive chemically or biologically, and do not undergo functional group interconversions cleanly.
When alkanes are produced in the laboratory, it is often a side-product of a reaction.
However, at times it may be desirable to make a portion of a molecule into an alkane like functionality (alkyl group) using the above or similar methods.
For example, an ethyl group is an alkyl group; when this is attached to a hydroxy group, it gives ethanol, which is not an alkane.
The applications of a certain alkane can be determined quite well according to the number of carbon atoms.
The first four alkanes are used mainly for heating and cooking purposes, and in some countries for electricity generation.
Methane and ethane are the main components of natural gas; they are normally stored as gases under pressure.
It is, however, easier to transport them as liquids: This requires both compression and cooling of the gas.
From knocking than their straight-chain homologue.
Alkanes from nonane to, for instance, hexadecane (an alkane with sixteen carbon atoms) are liquids of higher viscosity, less and less suitable for use in gasoline.
They form instead the major part of diesel and aviation fuel.
Diesel fuels are characterised by their cetane number, cetane being an old name for hexadecane.
However, the higher melting points of these alkanes can cause problems at low temperatures and in polar regions, where the fuel becomes too thick to flow correctly.
Alkanes from hexadecane upwards form the most important components of fuel oil and lubricating oil.
In latter function, they work at the same time as anti-corrosive agents, as their hydrophobic nature means that water cannot reach the metal surface.
Many solid alkanes find use as paraffin wax, for example, in candles.
This should not be confused however with true wax, which consists primarily of esters.
Alkanes with a chain length of approximately 35 or more carbon atoms are found in cracking.
Some synthetic polymers such as polyethylene and polypropylene are alkanes with chains containing hundreds of thousands of carbon atoms.
These materials are used in innumerable applications, and billions of kilograms of these materials are made and used each year.
Alkanes experience inter-molecular van der Waals forces.
Stronger inter-molecular van der Waals forces give rise to greater boiling points of alkanes.
Under standard conditions, from CH4 to C4H10 alkanes are gaseous; from C5H12 to C17H36 they are liquids; and after C18H38 they are solids.
As the boiling point of alkanes is primarily determined by weight, it should not be a surprise that the boiling point has almost a linear relationship with the size (molecular weight) of the molecule.
A straight-chain alkane will have a boiling point higher than a branched-chain alkane due to the greater surface area in contact, thus the greater van der Waals forces, between adjacent molecules.
The melting points of the alkanes follow a similar trend to boiling points for the same reason as outlined above.
That is, (all other things being equal) the larger the molecule the higher the melting point.
There is one significant difference between boiling points and melting points.
Solids have more ridged and fixed structure than liquids.
This rigid structure requires energy to break down.
Thus the stronger better put together solid structures will require more energy to break apart.
Alkanes do not conduct polarized by an electric field.
For this reason they do not form hydrogen bonds and are insoluble in polar solvents such as water.
Since the hydrogen bonds between individual water molecules are aligned away from an alkane molecule, the coexistence of an alkane and water leads to an increase in molecular order (a reduction in entropy).
As there is no significant bonding between water molecules and alkane molecules, the second law of thermodynamics suggests that this reduction in entropy should be minimised by minimising the contact between alkane and water: Alkanes are said to be hydrophobic in that they repel water.
Their solubility in nonpolar solvents is relatively good, a property that is called lipophilicity.
Different alkanes are, for example, miscible in all proportions among themselves.
The density of the alkanes usually increases with increasing number of carbon atoms, but remains less than that of water.
Hence, alkanes form the upper layer in an alkane-water mixture.
The molecular structure of the alkanes directly affects their physical and chemical characteristics.
It is derived from the sp3 hybridised, that is to say that the valence electrons are said to be in four equivalent orbitals derived from the combination of the 2s orbital and the three 2p orbitals.
An alkane molecule has only C &ndash; H and C &ndash; C single bonds.
The structural formula and the degree of freedom for each carbon &ndash; carbon bond: the torsion angle between the atoms or groups bound to the atoms at each end of the bond.
The spatial arrangement described by the torsion angles of the molecule is known as its conformation.
The two conformations, also known as rotamers, differ in energy: The staggered conformation is 12.6 kJ/mol lower in energy (more stable) than the eclipsed conformation (the least stable).
This difference in energy between the two conformations, known as the torsion energy, is low compared to the thermal energy of an ethane molecule at ambient temperature.
There is constant rotation about the C-C bond.
The case of higher alkanes is more complex but based on similar principles, with the antiperiplanar conformation always being the most favoured around each carbon-carbon bond.
For this reason, alkanes are usually shown in a zigzag arrangement in diagrams or in models.
The actual structure will always differ somewhat from these idealised forms, as the differences in energy between the conformations are small compared to the thermal energy of the molecules: Alkane molecules have no fixed structural form, whatever the models may suggest.
Virtually all organic compounds contain carbon &ndash; carbon and carbon &ndash; hydrogen bonds, and so show some of the features of alkanes in their spectra.
Infrared is about a thousand nanometres or more.
Alkanes have a high ionisation energy, and the molecular ion is usually weak.
The fragmentation pattern can be difficult to interpret, but, in the case of branched chain alkanes, the carbon chain is preferentially cleaved at tertiary or quaternary carbons due to the relative stability of the resulting free radicals.
In general, alkanes show a relatively low reactivity, because their C bonds are relatively stable and cannot be easily broken.
Unlike most other organic compounds, they possess no functional groups.
They react only very poorly with ionic or other polar substances.
The acid dissociation constant (pKa) values of all alkanes are above 60, hence they are practically inert to acids and bases (see: carbon acids).
In crude oil the alkane molecules have remained chemically unchanged for millions of years.
All alkanes react with oxygen in a combustion reaction, although they become increasingly difficult to ignite as the number of carbon atoms increases.
See the alkane heat of formation table for detailed data.
Alkanes react with exothermic, and can lead to an explosion.
These reactions are an important industrial route to halogenated hydrocarbons.
Experiments have shown that all halogenation produces a mixture of all possible isomers, indicating that all hydrogen atoms are susceptible to reaction.
The mixture produced, however, is not a statistical mixture: Secondary and tertiary hydrogen atoms are preferentially replaced due to the greater stability of secondary and tertiary free-radicals.
Cracking breaks larger molecules into smaller ones.
This can be done with a thermal or catalytic method.
The thermal cracking process follows a intra- and intermolecular hydrogen transfer or hydride transfer.
In both types of processes, the corresponding reactive intermediates (radicals, ions) are permanently regenerated, and thus they proceed by a self-propagating chain mechanism.
The chain of reactions is eventually terminated by radical or ion recombination.
Isomerization and reformation are processes in which straight-chain alkanes are heated in the presence of a platinum catalyst.
In isomerization, the alkanes become branched-chain isomers.
In reformation, the alkanes become cycloalkanes or aromatic hydrocarbons, giving off hydrogen as a by-product.
Both of these processes raise the octane number of the substance.
Alkanes will react with sulfonyl chlorides.
Methane is explosive when mixed with air (1 &ndash; 8% CH4) and is a strong greenhouse gas: Other lower alkanes can also form explosive mixtures with air.
The lighter liquid alkanes are highly flammable, although this risk decreases with the length of the carbon chain.
The straight-chain isomer of hexane is a neurotoxin, and therefore rarely used commercially.
The specific procedures for appealing, including even whether there is a right of appeal from a particular type of decision, can vary greatly from country to country.
Even within a jurisdiction, the nature of an appeal can vary greatly depending on the type of case.
An appellate court is a court that hears cases on appeal from another court.
Depending on the particular legal rules that apply to each circumstance, a party to a court case who is unhappy with the result might be able to challenge that result in an appellate court on specific grounds.
These grounds typically could include errors of law, fact, or procedure (in the United States, due process).
In different jurisdictions, appellate courts are also called appeals courts, courts of appeals, superior courts, or supreme courts.
A party who files an appeal is called an "appellant" or "petitioner", and a party on the other side is called a "respondent" (in most common-law countries) or an "appellee" (in the United States).
For example, suppose at trial the judge found for the plaintiff and ordered the defendant to pay $50,000.
If the defendant files an appeal arguing that he should not have to pay any money, then the plaintiff might file a cross-appeal arguing that the defendant should have to pay $200,000 instead of $50,000.
The appellant is the party who, having lost part or all their claim in a lower court decision, is appealing to a higher court to have their case reconsidered.
This is usually done on the basis that the lower court judge erred in the application of law, but it may also be possible to appeal on the basis of court misconduct, or that a finding of fact was entirely unreasonable to make on the evidence.
An appellee is the party to an appeal in which the lower court judgment was in its favor.
The appellee is required to respond to the petition, oral arguments, and legal briefs of the appellant.
In general, the appellee takes the procedural posture that the lower court's decision should be affirmed.
An appeal "as of right" is one that is guaranteed by statute or some underlying constitutional or legal principle.
The appellate court cannot refuse to listen to the appeal.
In equity, or other civil matters either party to a previous case may file an appeal.
In criminal matters, however, the state or prosecution generally has no appeal "as of right".
And due to the double jeopardy principle, the state or prosecution may never appeal a jury or bench verdict.
But in some jurisdictions, the state or prosecution may appeal "as of right" from a trial court's dismissal of an indictment in whole or in part or from a trial court's granting of a defendant's suppression motion.
Likewise, in some jurisdictions, the state or prosecution may appeal an issue of law "by leave" from the trial court and/or the appellate court.
By convention in some law reports, the appellant is named first.
This can mean that where it is the defendant who appeals, the name of the case in the law reports reverses (in some cases twice) as the appeals work their way up the court hierarchy.
This is not always true, however.
In the circuit courts of appeals, and are re-ordered only if the appeal reaches the United States Supreme Court.
The key distinguishing factor between direct and collateral appeals is that the former only reviews evidence that was presented in the trial court, but the later allows review of evidence dehors the record: depositions, affidavits, and witness statements that did not come in at trial.
The standard for post-conviction relief is high, typically requiring the petitioner to demonstrate that the evidence presented was not available in the usual course of trial discovery.
Relief in post-conviction is rare and is most often found in capital or violent felony cases.
The typical scenario involves an incarcerated defendant locating DNA evidence demonstrating the defendant's actual innocence.
A "notice of appeal" is a form or document that in many cases is required to begin an appeal.
The form is completed by the appellant or by the appellant's legal representative.
The nature of this form can vary greatly from country to country and from court to court within a country.
The specific rules of the legal system will dictate exactly how the appeal is officially begun.
For example, the appellant might have to file the notice of appeal with the appellate court, or with the court from which the appeal is taken, or both.
Some courts have samples of a notice of appeal on the court's own web site.
The deadline for beginning an appeal can often be very short: traditionally it is measured in days, not years.
This can vary from country to country, as well as within a country, depending on the specific rules in force.
Generally speaking the appellate court examines the record of evidence presented in the trial court and the law that the lower court applied and decides whether that decision was legally sound or not.
In some cases an appellate court may review a lower court decision "de novo" (or completely), challenging even the lower court's findings of fact.
This might be the proper standard of review, for example, if the lower court resolved the case by granting a pre-trial motion to dismiss or motion for summary judgment which is usually based only upon written submissions to the trial court and not on any trial testimony.
Certain jurisdictions permit certain appeals to cause the trial to be heard afresh in the appellate court.
An example would be an appeal from a Magistrates' court to the Crown Court in England and Wales.
Sometimes the appellate court finds a defect in the procedure the parties used in filing the appeal and dismisses the appeal without considering its merits, which has the same effect as affirming the judgment below.
In U.S. term "affirmed"; and the phrase "appeal allowed" is equivalent to the U.S. term "reversed".
In some systems an appellate court will only consider the written decision of the lower court, together with any written evidence that was before that court and is relevant to the appeal.
In other systems, the appellate court will normally consider the record of the lower court.
In those cases the record will first be certified by the lower court.
The appellant has the opportunity to present arguments for the granting of the appeal and the appellee (or respondent) can present arguments against it.
Arguments of the parties to the appeal are presented through their appellate hearing.
At such hearings each party is allowed a brief presentation at which the appellate judges ask questions based on their review of the record below and the submitted briefs.
It is important to note that in an adversarial system appellate courts do not have the power to review lower court decisions unless a party appeals it.
Therefore if a lower court has ruled in an improper manner or against legal precedent that judgment will stand even if it might have been overturned on appeal.
The United States legal system generally recognizes two types of appeals: a trial "de novo" or an appeal on the record.
A evidence may be developed newly, as though never heard before, and one is not restricted to the evidence heard in the lower proceeding.
Sometimes, however, the decision of the lower proceeding is itself admissible as evidence, thus helping to curb frivolous appeals.
In an appeal on the record from a decision in a judicial proceeding, both appellant and respondent are bound to base their arguments wholly on the proceedings and body of evidence as they were presented in the lower tribunal.
Each seeks to prove to the higher court that the result they desired was the just result.
Precedent and case law figure prominently in the arguments.
In order for the appeal to succeed, the appellant must prove that the lower court committed reversible error, that is, an impermissible action by the court acted to cause a result that was unjust, and which would not have resulted had the court acted properly.
Some examples of reversible error would be erroneously instructing the jury on the law applicable to the case, permitting seriously improper argument by an attorney, admitting or excluding evidence improperly, acting outside the court's jurisdiction, injecting bias into the proceeding or appearing to do so, juror misconduct, etc.
The failure to formally object at the time, to what one views as improper action in the lower court, may result in the affirmance of the lower court's judgment on the grounds that one did not "preserve the issue for appeal" by objecting.
In cases where a judge rather than a jury decided issues of fact, an appellate court will apply an "abuse of discretion" standard of review.
Under this standard, the appellate court gives deference to the lower court's view of the evidence, and reverses its decision only if it were a clear abuse of discretion.
This is usually defined as a decision outside the bounds of reasonableness.
On the other hand, the appellate court normally gives less deference to a lower court's decision on issues of law, and may reverse if it finds that the lower court applied the wrong legal standard.
In some rare cases, an appellant may successfully argue that the law under which the lower decision was rendered was unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, or may convince the higher court to order a new trial on the basis that evidence earlier sought was concealed or only recently discovered.
In the case of new evidence, there must be a high probability that its presence or absence would have made a material difference in the trial.
Another issue suitable for appeal in criminal cases is effective assistance of counsel.
It is distinguished from judicial review, which refers to the court's overriding constitutional or statutory right to determine if a legislative act or administrative decision is defective for jurisdictional or other reasons (which may vary by jurisdiction).
In most jurisdictions the normal and preferred way of seeking appellate review is by filing an appeal of the final judgment.
Generally, an appeal of the judgment will also allow appeal of all other orders or rulings made by the trial court in the course of the case.
This is because such orders cannot be appealed "as of right".
However, certain critical interlocutory court orders, such as the denial of a request for an interim injunction, or an order holding a person in contempt of court, can be appealed immediately although the case may otherwise not have been fully disposed of.
In American law, there are two distinct forms of appellate review, "direct" and "collateral".
In Anglo-American Quebec recognize these prerogative writs.
In the case of a criminal case there is usually an arraignment or some other kind of appearance before the court by the defendant.
The pleading in the criminal case, which is entered on the record in open court, is either guilty or not guilty.
Generally speaking in private, civil cases there is no guilt or innocence.
There is only a judgment that grants money damages or some other kind of equitable remedy such as restitution or an injunction.
Criminal cases may lead to fines or other punishment, such as imprisonment.
An "appellate court" is any court of law that is empowered to hear an appeal of a trial court or other lower tribunal.
A supreme court is therefore itself a kind of appellate court.
Appellate courts may have a number of titles.
Many jurisdictions title their appellate court a "Court of Appeal" or "Court of Appeals".
Depending on the system, certain courts may serve as both trial courts and appellate courts, hearing appeals of decisions made by courts with more limited jurisdiction.
Some jurisdictions have specialized appellate courts, such as the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, which only hears appeals raised in criminal cases.
The authority of appellate courts to review a decisions of lower courts varies widely from one jurisdication to another.
In some places, the appellate court has limited powers of review.
For example, in the federal appellate courts are usually restricted to examining whether the court below made the correct legal determinations, rather than hearing direct evidence and determining what the facts of the case were.
Furthermore, U.S. appellate courts are usually restricted to hearing appeals based on matters that were originally brought up before the trial court.
Hence, such an appellate court will not consider an appellant's argument if it is based on a theory that is raised for the first time in the appeal.
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial, and involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment.
The defendant is asked whether they plead guilty or not guilty to each individual charge.
If the defendant pleads guilty an trial.
Upper caption = America the Beautiful MIDI recording.
American patriotic song.
The words are by Katharine Lee Bates, an English professor at Wellesley College.
On that mountain, the words of the poem started to come to her, and she wrote them down upon returning to her hotel room at the original Antlers Hotel.
The poem was initially published two years later in "The Congregationalist," to commemorate the Fourth of July.
It quickly caught the public's fancy.
Amended versions were published in 1904 and 1913.
Several existing pieces of music were adapted to the poem.
Popularity of the song increased greatly following the September 11, 2001 attacks; at some sporting events it was sung in addition to the traditional singing of the national anthem.
During the first taping of the "Late Show with David Letterman" following the attacks, CBS newsman Dan Rather cried briefly as he quoted the fourth verse.
It is often included in songbooks in a wide variety of religious congregations in the United States.
It has also become a tradition for the song to be performed at the start of the Michelle Williams.
When Richard Nixon visited the People's Republic of China in 1972, this song was played by Chinese as the welcome music.
A song as popular and familiar as "America the Beautiful" inevitably gets used out of its proper context or time frame, for humorous effect.
Look at him in that hat!
Is that a crazy sailor?
I'll tell you how crazy!
He's a man with a dream, a vision, a vision of a new world, whose alabaster cities gleam undimmed by human tears, with purple mountain majesties above the Two Cents Plain.
Ferdinand and Columbus: Fruited!
Oh beautiful, for smoggy skies, insecticided grain For strip-mined mountain's majesty above the asphalt plain.
America, America, man sheds his waste on thee And hides the pines with billboard signs, from sea to oily sea!
O beautiful, for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain, For purple mountain majesties Above the fruited plain!
O beautiful, for pilgrim feet Whose stern, impassioned stress A thoroughfare for freedom beat Across the wilderness!
O beautiful, for heroes proved In liberating strife, Who more than self their country loved And mercy more than life!
O beautiful, for patriot dream That sees beyond the years, Thine alabaster cities gleam Undimmed by human tears!
Universal (or broadened) accessibility, or universal design means greater usability, particularly for people with disabilities.
One example is the "curb cuts" (or dropped curbs) in the sidewalk at street crossings.
While these curb cuts enable pedestrians with mobility impairments to cross the street, these also aid parents with carriages and strollers, shoppers with carts, and travellers and workers with pull-type bags, not to mention skateboarders and inline skaters.
Also, a person with a mobility impairment can have difficulty using calculators.
Speech recognition software could recognize short commands and make use of calculators easier.
The Lekotek movement assists parents by lending assistive technology toys and expertise to families.
Technology similar to Telecare can also be used to act within a person's home rather than just to respond to a detected crisis.
Using one of the examples above, unlit gas sensors for people with dementia can be used to trigger a device that turns off the gas and tells someone what has happened.
Designing for people with dementia is a good example of how the design of the interface of a piece of AT is critical to its usefulness.
People with dementia or any other identified user group must be involved in the design process to make sure that the design is accessible and usable.
In the example above, a voice message could be used to remind the person with dementia to turn off the gas himself, but whose voice should be used, and what should the message say?
Questions like these must be answered through user consultation, involvement and evaluation.
Sitting at a desk with a QWERTY keyboard and a mouse remains the dominant way of interacting with a personal computer.
Some AT reduces the strain of this way of work through ergonomic accessories with height-adjustable furniture, footrests, wrist rests, and arm supports to ensure correct posture.
Keyguards fits over the keyboard to help prevent unintentional keypresses.
More ambitiously, and quite crucially when keyboard or mouse prove unusable, AT can also replace the keyboard and mouse with alternative devices: trackballs, joysticks, graphics tablets, touchpads, touch screens, a microphone with speech recognition software, sip-and-puff input, and switch access.
Choice of appropriate hardware and software will depend on the user's level of functional vision.
Do not place advertisements here.
Wikipedia is not a link directory.
Consider submitting your link to DMOZ instead.
The first abacus was almost certainly based on a flat stone covered with sand or dust.
Words and letters were drawn in the sand; eventually numbers were added and pebbles used to aid calculations.
The Babylonians used this dust abacus as early as 2400 BC.
The origin of the counter abacus with strings is obscure, but India, Mesopotamia or Egypt are seen as probable points of origin.
China played an essential part in the development and evolution of the abacus.
From this, a variety of abaci were developed; the most popular were based on the bi-quinary system, using a combination of two bases (base-2 and base-5) to represent decimal numbers.
But the earliest abaci used first in Mesopotamia and later by scribes in Egypt and Greece used sexagesimal numbers represented with factors of 5, 2, 3, and 2 for each digit.
Babylonians may have used the abacus for the operations of addition and subtraction.
However, this primitive device proved difficult to use for more complex calculations.
Some scholars point to a character from the Babylonian cuniform which may have been derived from a representation of the abacus.
The use of the abacus in ancient Egypt is mentioned by the Greek historian Herodotus, who writes that the manner of his disks usage by the Egyptians was opposite in direction when compared with the Greek method.
Archaeologists have found ancient disks of various sizes that are thought to have been used as counters.
However, wall depictions of this instrument have not been discovered, casting some doubt over the extent to which this instrument was used.
A tablet found on the Greek island Salamis in 1846 dates back to 300 BC, making it the oldest counting board discovered so far.
It is a slab of white marble 149 cm long, 75 cm wide, and 4.5 cm thick, on which are 5 groups of markings.
In the center of the tablet is a set of 5 parallel lines equally divided by a vertical line, capped with a semi-circle at the intersection of the bottom-most horizontal line and the single vertical line.
Below these lines is a wide space with a horizontal crack dividing it.
If we are only allowed one image then this is the better to use.
The normal method of calculation in ancient Rome, as in Greece, was by moving counters on a smooth table.
Later, and in medieval Europe, jetons were manufactured.
Marked lines indicated units, fives, tens etc.
Roman numeral system.
This system of 'counter casting' continued into the late Roman empire and in medieval Europe, and persisted in limited use into the nineteenth century.
In addition to the more common method using loose counters, several specimens have been found of a Roman abacus, shown here in reconstruction.
It has eight long grooves containing up to five beads in each and eight shorter grooves having either one or no beads in each.
The groove marked I indicates units, X tens, and so on up to millions.
The earliest mention of a suanpan is found in a First Century book of the Eastern Han Dynasty, namely "Supplementary Notes on the Art of Figures" written by Xu Yue.
However, the exact design of this suanpan is not known.
Usually, a suanpan is about 20 cm tall and it comes in various widths depending on the operator.
It usually has more than seven rods.
There are two beads on each rod in the upper deck and five beads each in the bottom for both decimal and hexadecimal computation.
Modern abacuses have one bead on the top deck and four beads on the bottom deck.
The beads are usually rounded and made of a hardwood.
The beads are counted by moving them up or down towards the beam.
If you move them high, you count their value.
If you move them down, you don't count their value.
The suanpan can be reset to the starting position instantly by a quick jerk along the horizontal axis to spin all the beads away from the horizontal beam at the center.
Suanpans can be used for functions other than counting.
Unlike the simple counting board used in elementary schools, very efficient suanpan techniques have been developed to do division, addition, subtraction, square root and cube root operations at high speed.
In the famous long scroll "Riverside Scenes at Qingming Festival" painted by Zhang Zeduan (1085-1145) during the Song Dynasty (960-1297), a suanpan is clearly seen lying beside an account book and doctor's prescriptions on the counter of an apothecary's (Feibao).
Instead of running on wires as in the Chinese and Japanese models, the beads of Roman model run in groves, presumably making arithmetic calculations much slower.
Another possible source of the suanpan is Chinese zero as a place holder.
This Mesoamerican abacus used a 5-digit base-20 system.
The quipu of the Incas was a system of knotted cords used to record numerical data, like advanced tally sticks&mdash;but not used to perform calculations.
Calculations were carried out using a yupana (quechua for "counting tool"; see figure) which was still in use after the conquest of Peru.
The working principle of a yupana is unknown, but in 2001 an explanation of the mathematical basis of these instruments was proposed.
By comparing the form of several yupanas, researchers found that calculations were based using the Fibonacci sequence 1,1,2,3,5 and powers of 10, 20 and 40 as place values for the different fields in the instrument.
Using the Fibonacci sequence would keep the number of grains within any one field at minimum.
The Russian abacus is still in use today in shops and markets throughout the former Soviet Union, although it is no longer taught in most schools.
Around the world, abaci have been used in pre-schools and elementary schools as an aid in teaching the numeral system and arithmetic.
In Western countries, a "bead frame" similar to the Russian abacus but with straight wires and a vertical frame has been common (see image).
It is still often seen as a plastic or wooden toy.
The type of abacus shown here is often used to represent numbers without the use of place value.
Each bead and each wire has the same value and used in this way it can represent numbers up to 100.
The most significant educational advantage of using an abacus, rather than loose beads or counters, when practicing counting and simple addition is that it gives the student an awareness of the groupings of 10 which are the foundation of our number system.
Although adults take this base 10 structure for granted, it is actually difficult to learn.
Many 6-year-olds can count to 100 by rote with only a slight awareness of the patterns involved.
An adapted abacus, called a Cranmer abacus is still commonly used by individuals who are division, addition, subtraction, square root and cubic root.
Although blind students have benefited from talking calculators, the abacus is still very often taught to these students in early grades, both in public schools and state schools for the blind.
The abacus teaches math skills that can never be replaced with talking calculators and is an important learning tool for blind students.
Blind students also complete math assignments using a braille-writer and Nemeth code (a type of braille code for math) but large multiplication and long division problems can be long and difficult.
The abacus gives blind and visually impaired students a tool to compute math problems that equals the speed and mathematical knowledge required by their sighted peers using pencil and paper.
Many blind people find this number machine a very useful tool throughout life.
In the classical naming system, acids are named according to their anions.
That ionic suffix is dropped and replaced with a new suffix (and sometimes prefix), according to the table below.
For example, HCl has chloride as its anion, so the -ide suffix makes it take the form hydrochloric acid.
Thus, for hydrogen chloride, the IUPAC name would be aqueous hydrogen chloride.
Polyprotic acids are able to donate more than one proton per acid molecule, in contrast to monoprotic acids that only donate one proton per molecule.
Specific types of polyprotic acids have more specific names, such as "diprotic acid" (two potential protons to donate) and "triprotic acid" (three potential protons to donate).
A diprotic acid (here symbolized by H2A) can undergo one or two dissociations depending on the pH.
Each dissociation has its own dissociation constant, Ka1 and Ka2.
An organic example of a triprotic acid is citric acid, which can successively lose three protons to finally form the citrate ion.
Neutralization is the basis of titration, where a pH indicator shows equivalence point when the equivalent number of moles of a base have been added to an acid.
It is often wrongly assumed that neutralization should result in a solution with pH 7.0, which is only the case with similar acid and base strengths during a reaction.
Neutralization with an base weaker than the acid results in an weakly acidic salt.
An example is the weakly acidic ammonium chloride, which is produced from the strong acid hydrogen chloride and the weak base ammonia.
Conversely, neutralizing a weak acid with a strong base gives a weakly basic salt, e.g. sodium fluoride from hydrogen fluoride and sodium hydroxide.
Solutions of weak acids and salts of their conjugate bases form buffer solutions.
There are numerous uses for acids.
Acids are often used to remove rust and other corrosion from metals in a process known as pickling.
They may be used as an electrolyte in a wet cell battery, such as sulfuric acid in a car battery.
In humans and many other animals, hydrochloric acid is a part of the gastric acid secreted within the stomach to help hydrolyze proteins and polysaccharides, as well as converting the inactive pro-enzyme, pepsinogen into the enzyme, pepsin.
Acids are used as catalysts; for example, sulfuric acid is used in very large quantities in the alkylation process to produce gasoline.
Outside North America, the product is called bitumen.
The road surfacing material is usually called 'asphalt concrete' in North America or simply 'asphalt' elsewhere.
The apparent interchangeability of the words 'asphalt' and 'bitumen' causes a lot of confusion outside of the road construction industry despite quite clear definitions within industry circles.
Asphalt or bitumen can sometimes be confused with tar, which is a similar black thermo-plastic material produced by the destructive distillation of coal.
During the early and mid twentieth century when town gas was produced, tar was a readily available product and extensively used as the binder for road aggregates.
The addition of tar to Macadam roads lead to the word Tarmac which is now used in common parlance to refer to road making materials.
However, since the 1970s, when natural gas succeeded town gas, asphalt (bitumen) has completely overtaken the use of tar in these applications.
This makes the product harder and more viscous.
Natural deposits of asphalt include Lake Asphalts (primarily from the Pitch Lake in Trinidad and Tobago and Bermudez Lake in Venezuela), Gilsonite, the Dead Sea between Israel & Jordan, and Tar Sands.
Asphalt was also used by ancient Egyptians to embalm mummies.
In the ancient Far East, natural asphalt was slowly boiled to get rid of the higher fractions, leaving a material of higher molecular weight which is thermoplastic and when layered on objects, became quite hard upon cooling.
This was used to cover scabbards and other objects that needed water-proofing.
Poured bitumen has also been used as a damp-proof course in building.
The largest use of asphalt is for making shingles account for most of the remaining asphalt consumption.
Other uses include cattle sprays, fence post treatments, and waterproofing for fabrics.
Asphalt road surface is the most widely recycled material in the US, both by gross tonnage and by percentage.
According to a report issued by the Federal Highway Administration and the United States Environmental Protection Agency, 80% of the asphalt from road surfaces' that is removed each year during widening and resurfacing projects is reused as part of new roads, roadbeds, shoulders and embankments.
A number of technologies allow asphalt to be mixed at much lower temperatures.
Asphalt emulsions contain up to 70% asphalt and typically less than 1.5% chemical additives.
There are two main types of emulsions with different affinity for aggregates, cationic and anionic.
Asphalt emulsions are used in a wide variety of applications.
Chipseal involves spraying the road surface with asphalt emulsion followed by a layer of crushed rock or gravel.
Slurry Seal involves the creation of a mixture of asphalt emulsion and fine crushed aggregate that is spread on the surface of a road.
Cold mixed asphalt can also be made from asphalt emulsion to create pavements similar to hot-mixed asphalt, several inches in depth and asphalt emulsions are also blended into recycled hot-mix asphalt to create low cost pavements.
Sometimes asphalt can be mixed with the output from low-temperature thermal desorption.
The world has become increasingly concerned over the global climate change problem in recent years due to the pollution that is released into the atmosphere.
Most of the emissions are derived primarily from burning fossil fuels.
This has led to the introduction of bitumen alternatives that are more environmentally friendly and non toxic.
Bitumen can now be made from non-petroleum based renewable resources such as sugar, molasses and rice, corn and potato starches etc.
To further help the environment bitumen can also be made from the waste material vacuum tower bottoms produced in the process of cleaning used motor oils which helps the recycling industries, this waste is normally disposed by burning or dumping into land fills.
These new non-petroleum based bitumen binders can be colored, which thereby help reduce the temperatures of road surfaces which contribute to the Urban heat island which in turn contributes to global climate change.
For millions of people living in and around cities, heat islands are of growing concern.
A number of homeowners seeking an environmentally-friendly alternative to asphalt for paving have experimented with waste vegetable oil as a binder for driveways and parking areas in single-family applications.
The earliest known test occurred in 2002 in Ohio, where the homeowner combined waste vegetable oil with dry aggregate to create a low-cost and non-polluting paving material for his 200-foot driveway.
After five years, he reports the driveway is performing as well or better than petroleum-based materials.
This movement has led the Shell Oil Company (see also, Controversies surrounding Royal Dutch Shell) to pave two public roads in Sweden in 2007 with the Colas vegetable-oil-based asphalt.
These standards ensure that the characteristics and performance of products are consistent, that people use the same definitions and terms, and that products are tested the same way.
The organization's headquarters are in Washington, DC.
New York City.
American Engineering Standards Committee (AESC).
The AESC became the American Standards Association (ASA) in 1928.
In 1966, the ASA was reorganized and became the United States of America Standards Institute (USASI).
The present name was adopted in 1969.
In total, the Institute represents the interests of more than 125,000 companies and 3.5 million professionals.
Though ANSI itself does not develop standards, the Institute facilitates the development of American National Standards, also known as ANS, by accrediting the procedures of standards developing organizations.
Voluntary consensus standards quicken the market acceptance of products while making clear how to improve the safety of those products for the protection of consumers.
There are approximately 10,500 American National Standards that carry the ANSI designation.
Each of the panels works to identify, coordinate, and harmonize voluntary standards relevant to these areas.
In general parlance, an argument is a discussion involving conflicting points of view.
The "Apollo 11" mission was the first manned mission to land on the Edwin Eugene 'Buzz' Aldrin, Jr.
On July 20, Armstrong and Aldrin became the first humans to land on the Moon, while Collins orbited above.
Number in parentheses indicates number of spaceflights by each individual prior to and including this mission.
In addition to one million people crowding the highways and beaches near the launch site, an estimated audience of over 700 million people viewed the event on television, a new record at that time.
President Richard Nixon viewed the proceedings from the Oval Office of the White House.
A Lunar Module Adaptor.
On lunar module "Eagle" separated from the command module "Columbia".
Collins, alone aboard "Columbia", inspected "Eagle" as it pirouetted before him to ensure the craft was not damaged.
The program alarms were "executive overflows" indicating the computer was not completing all its processing tasks.
The cause was later traced to a training error: The computer spent unplanned time processing extra data from the LM rendezvous radar which had been left on during descent.
Although "Apollo 11" landed with less fuel than other missions, they also encountered a premature low fuel warning.
It was later found to be caused by the lunar gravity permitting greater propellant 'slosh' which had uncovered a fuel sensor.
On future missions extra baffles were added to the tanks.
At 2:56 UTC on July 21, Armstrong made his descent to the Moon's surface and spoke his famous line "That's one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind" exactly six and a half hours after landing.
Then for two-and-a-half hours, they took notes, photographed what they saw, and drilled core samples.
Aldrin joined him on the surface and tested methods for moving around, including two-footed kangaroo hops.
The PLSS backpack created a tendency to tip backwards, but neither astronaut had serious problems maintaining balance.
Loping became the preferred method of movement.
The astronauts reported that they needed to plan their movements six or seven steps ahead.
The fine soil was quite slippery.
They then took a phone call from President Richard Nixon after planting the U.S. flag together on the Moon's surface.
The MESA failed to provide a stable work platform and was in shadow, slowing work somewhat.
As they worked, the moonwalkers kicked up gray dust which soiled the outer part of their suits, the integrated thermal meteoroid garment.
They deployed the EASEP, which included a passive seismograph and a laser ranging retroreflector.
Then Armstrong loped about 120 m (400 ft) from the LM to snap photos at the rim of East Crater while Aldrin collected two core tubes.
He used the geological hammer to pound in the tubes - the only time the hammer was used on "Apollo 11".
The astronauts then collected rock samples using scoops and tongs on extension handles.
Many of the surface activities took longer than expected, so they had to stop documented sample collection halfway through the allotted 34 min.
During this period Mission Control used a coded phrase to warn Armstrong that his metabolic rates were high and that he should slow down.
He was moving rapidly from task to task as time ran out.
Rates remained generally lower than expected for both astronauts throughout the walk, however, so Mission Control granted the astronauts a 15-minute extension.
With some difficulty the astronauts lifted film and two sample boxes containing more than 22 kg (48 lb) of lunar surface material to the LM hatch using a flat cable pulley device called the Lunar Equipment Conveyor.
While moving in the cabin Aldrin accidentally broke the circuit breaker that armed the main engine for lift off from the moon.
There was initial concern this would prevent firing the engine, which would strand them on the moon.
Fortunately a felt-tip pen was sufficient to activate the switch.
Had this not worked, the Lunar Module circuitry could have been reconfigured to allow firing the ascent engine.
After about seven hours of rest, they were awakened by Houston to prepare for the return flight.
They also left behind a memorial bag containing a gold replica of an olive branch as a traditional symbol of peace, the Apollo 1 patch, and a silicon message disk.
The disk carries the goodwill statements by Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon and messages from leaders of 73 countries around the world.
The disc also carries a listing of the leadership of the US Congress, a listing of members of the four committees of the House and Senate responsible for the NASA legislation, and the names of NASA's past and present top management.
News Release No.
On July 23, the three astronauts made a television broadcast on the last night before splashdown.
The Saturn V rocket which put us in orbit is an incredibly complicated piece of machinery, every piece of which worked flawlessly.
We have always had confidence that this equipment will work properly.
All this is possible only through the blood, sweat, and tears of a number of a people.
On splashdown, the astronauts were placed in a trailer that had been designed as a quarantine facility.
President Richard Nixon was aboard the recovery vessel to personally welcome the astronauts back to Earth.
That evening in Los Angeles there was an official State Dinner to celebrate "Apollo 11", attended by Members of Congress, 44 Governors, the Chief Justice, and ambassadors from 83 nations.
President Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom.
Many nations would honor the first manned moon landing by issuing "Apollo 11" commemorative postage stamps or coins.
On September 16 1969, the three astronauts spoke before a Joint Session of Congress on Capitol Hill.
They presented two U.S. flags, one to the House of Representatives and the other to the Senate, that had been carried to the surface of the moon with them.
The command module is displayed at the Mercury capsule Friendship 7, and Gemini 4.
The quarantine trailer is displayed at the Smithsonian's Udvar-Hazy Center annex near Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia.
The signal was picked up by three purpose-built stations, called Greenbelt, Maryland.
On 14 July 1969, two days before last day of the launch window, the INTELSAT III satellite over the Atlantic failed, cutting off the link between the dish in Spain and Greenbelt, Maryland.
It was decided that the problem needed to be fixed by two hours before launch time, or the launch would be scrubbed.
The inverse multiplexed signal.
An official with the Spanish communications authority helped the team secure the circuits with his own personal list of contacts.
The last circuit using inverse multiplexing was accepted by NASA just minutes before the time limit.
The familiar patch of "Apollo 11" was designed by Collins, who wanted a symbol for "peaceful lunar landing by the United States".
He picked an eagle as the symbol, put an XI would not be understood in some nations and went with "Apollo 11"; they decided not to put their names on the patch to "allow it to symbolize everyone who worked on the moon landing".
All colors are natural, with blue and gold borders around the patch.
Passive Seismic Experiment Package with the Lunar Module in the background.
Assembly showing Neil Armstrong.
From 16 mm film (NASA).
To beat the lunar mission, similar to the Zond 5 and Zond 6 circumlunar missions, in December 1968.
Due to its geography, the Soviets' launch facility, Baikonur Cosmodrome, had a lunar launch window that opened a few days earlier than the Americans' that December.
Number in parentheses indicates number of spaceflights by each individual before and including this mission.
The backup crew trained to take the place of the prime crew in case of illness or death.
The support crew members were not trained to fly the mission, but were able to stand in for astronauts in meetings and be involved in the minutiae of mission planning, while the prime and backup crews trained.
They often also served as capcoms during the mission.
On disc herniation, requiring two vertebrae to be fused together.
Collins recovered and went on to be the Command Module Pilot for Apollo 11.
In September 1967, the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, Texas proposed a series of missions that would lead up to a manned lunar landing.
Seven mission types were outlined, each testing a specific set of components and tasks; each previous step needed to be completed successfully before the next mission type could be undertaken.
Of all the components of the Apollo system, the Lunar Module (LM), which would eventually be used to land on the Moon, presented the most problems.
It was behind schedule, and when the first model was shipped to Cape Canaveral in June 1968, over 100 separate defects were discovered.
Grumman, the lead contractor for the LM, predicted that the first mannable LM, to be used for the D mission, would not be ready until at least February 1969, delaying the entire sequence.
Almost every senior manager at NASA agreed with this new mission.
In the end, the E mission was canceled as most of its objectives had been covered by the Apollo 8 and Apollo 9 flights.
Mission managers were also confident that Apollo 10 would also cover the remaining objectives with its lunar orbit flight.
On navigating the spacecraft in case communication was lost with the Earth.
Anders was placed in charge of checking that the spacecraft was in working order.
It was not until November 12 that a public announcement was made about the change of mission for Apollo 8.
Borman's main concern during the four months leading up to the launch was keeping the flight plan as simple as possible, not accepting any addition that went beyond the simple objectives of performing the first manned Saturn V launch, going to the Moon and orbiting it.
The crew, now living in the crew quarters at 1927 flight, Lindbergh had used a piece of string to measure the distance from New York City to Paris on a globe and from that calculated the fuel needed for the flight.
The total was a tenth of the amount that the Saturn V would burn every second.
The next day, the Lindberghs watched the launch of Apollo 8 together, and she later wrote her book Earthshine about the event.
The Saturn V rocket used by "Apollo 8" was designated SA-503, the third flight model.
When it was erected in the boilerplate Command/Service Module.
The SA-503 mission was thus changed to a manned one.
However, NASA managers did impose some restrictions on a manned flight taking place: the S-II second stage shipped by barge to the test site.
The spark igniters on the second and third stage engines were also modified.
In May 1968 a leak was found in a first stage engine, requiring it to be replaced.
With only two launches of the Saturn V under its belt, the ground crew at Kennedy Space Center (KSC) was having problems keeping to the schedule.
The Grumman crew was also having issues with the lunar module.
Concern was expressed that so much work had to be done on the lunar module after it had shipped to the Cape.
The ascent engine developed leaks that necessitated redesigns and valve changes.
Then in August 1968, the entire mission changed.
Moon and would not be carrying a lunar module, instead carrying a mass equivalent, called a lunar module test article (LTA), similar to ones used for "Apollo 4" and "Apollo 6".
To speed up the pre-launch preparations, much of the modification of the Saturn V was taken out of the hands of KSC and given to appropriate development centers; only changes that affected crew safety were made.
The "Apollo 8" spacecraft was placed on top of the rocket on September 21 and the rocket made the slow 3-mile (5&nbsp;km) journey to the launch pad on October 9.
Testing continued all through December until the day before launch.
The SA-503 designation stood for Saturn-Apollo, and was used by NASA departments concerned with the launch vehicle.
However, departments concerned with the manned flight often used AS-503, standing for Apollo-Saturn; both of these designations were used at the time to refer to the mission as a whole.
For the next 2 hours and 38 minutes the crew and Mission Control worked to check that the spacecraft was in working order and ready for Trans-Lunar Injection (TLI), the burn that would put the spacecraft on a trajectory to the Moon.
At the same time the crew transformed the capsule from a rocket payload to a spacecraft.
During the flight there would be three S-IVB third stage rocket ignited on time and burned perfectly for 5 minutes and 17 seconds.
After the S-IVB had performed its required tasks it was jettisoned.
The crew then rotated the spacecraft to take some photographs of the spent stage, as well as practiced flying in formation with it.
As the crew rotated the spacecraft around they had their first views of the Earth as they moved away from it.
This was the first time humans had been able to see the entire Earth in one go.
Borman became worried that the S-IVB was staying too close to the CSM and suggested to Mission Control that the crew perform a separation maneuver.
Five hours after launch, mission control commanded the S-IVB booster to vent its remaining fuel through its engine bell to change its trajectory such that it would flyby the Moon and enter into a solar orbit, so as to pose no future hazard to the crew.
The members of the "Apollo 8" crew were the first humans to pass through the milligray (during the course of a year, the average human receives a dose of 2 to 3 mGy), there was still interest in the radiation dosages on the crew.
So each crew member wore a Personal Radiation Dosimeter that could be read back to the ground as well as three passive film dosimeters that show the cumulative radiation experienced by the crew.
By the end of the mission, the average radiation dose of the crew was 1.6 mGy.
Jim Lovell's main job as Command Module Pilot was to act as navigator.
Although Mission Control performed all the actual navigation calculation, it was necessary that in case of communication loss the crew could navigate their way home.
This was done by star sightings using a sextant built into the spacecraft, measuring the angle between a star and the Earth's (or the Moon's) horizon.
This proved to be difficult, as the venting by the S-IVB had caused a large cloud of debris to form around the spacecraft, making it hard to distinguish the stars.
By seven hours into the mission, the delay in moving away from the S-IVB and Lovell's star sightings meant that they were behind schedule on the flight plan by about one hour and 40 minutes.
The crew now placed the spacecraft into Passive Thermal Control (PTC), or what is more aptly called cone as it rotated.
This would have to be trimmed every half hour as it started to get larger and larger.
The first mid-course correction came 11 hours into the flight.
Testing on the ground had shown there was a small chance that the oxidizer lines causing lower than expected fuel pressure, requiring the crew to use the small Reaction Control System (RCS) thrusters to make up the shortfall.
Two later planned mid-course corrections were cancelled as the trajectory was found to be perfect.
Eleven hours into the flight, the crew had been awake for over 16 hours.
Before launch, NASA had decided that at least one crew member should be awake at all times to deal with any issues that might arise, and Borman proceeded to start the first sleep shift, but between constant radio chatter and mechanical noises, he found sleep difficult.
About an hour after starting his sleep period, Borman requested clearance to take a tape voice recordings and telemetry, which were then dumped to the ground at high speed.
A conference between the crew and medical personnel was held using the unoccupied second floor control room (there were two identical control rooms in Houston on the second and third floor, of which only one is used during the course of a mission).
The cruise phase was a relatively uneventful part of the flight, except for the crew checking that the spacecraft was in working order and that they were on course.
During this time, NASA scheduled a television broadcast for 31 hours after launch.
During this first broadcast the crew gave a tour of the spacecraft and attempted to show how the Earth appeared.
However, this proved impossible, as the narrow-angle lens was difficult to aim without the aid of a monitor to show what it was looking at.
Also without proper filters, the image became saturated by any bright source.
In the end all the crew could do was show the people watching back on Earth a bright blob.
After broadcasting for 17 minutes, the rotation of the spacecraft took the high-gain antenna out of view of the receiving stations on Earth and they ended the transmission with Lovell wishing his mother happy birthday.
By this time the planned sleep periods had been completely abandoned.
Somewhat strangely, the crew was unable to see the Moon for much of the outward cruise.
Three of the five windows had fogged up, due to out-gassed oils from the attitude required for the PTC, the Moon was almost impossible to see from inside the spacecraft.
In fact, it was not until the crew had gone behind the Moon that they would be able to see it for the first time.
A second television broadcast came at 55 hours.
This time the crew had managed to rig up filters meant for the still cameras, so that they could acquire images of the Earth through the telephoto lens.
Although difficult to aim, as they had to maneuver the entire spacecraft, the crew was able to broadcast back to Earth the first television pictures of the Earth.
The crew spent the transmission describing the Earth and what was visible and the colors that could be seen.
The transmission lasted 23 minutes.
At about 55 hours and 40 minutes into the flight, the crew of "Apollo 8" became the first humans to enter the gravitational sphere of influence of another celestial body.
To put it another way, the Moon's reference frame based on ideal orientation for the second engine burn they would make in lunar orbit.
It was only thirteen hours until they would be in lunar orbit.
The last major event before Lunar Orbit Insertion was a second mid-course correction.
At 64 hours into the flight, the crew began to prepare for Lunar Orbit Insertion-1 (LOI-1).
This maneuver had to be performed perfectly, and due to orbital mechanics had to be on the far side of the Moon, out of contact with the Earth.
With ten minutes before the LOI-1, the crew began one last check of the spacecraft systems and made sure that every switch was in the correct place.
Then they finally got their first glimpses of the Moon.
They had been flying over the unlit side, and it was Lovell who saw the first shafts of sunlight obliquely illuminating the lunar surface.
The LOI burn was only two minutes away, so the crew had little time to appreciate the view.
Igniting at 69 hours, 8 minutes and 16 seconds after launch, the SPS burned for 4 minutes and 13 seconds, placing the crew of "Apollo 8" in orbit around the Moon.
The crew described this as being the longest four minutes of their lives.
If the burn had not lasted exactly the right amount of time, the spacecraft could have ended up in a highly elliptical lunar orbit or even flung off into space.
If it lasted too long they could have ended up impacting the Moon.
After making sure the spacecraft was working, they finally had a chance to look at the Moon, which they would orbit for the next 20 hours.
On Earth, Mission Control continued to wait.
If the crew had not burned the engine or the burn had not lasted the planned length of time the crew would appear early from behind the Moon.
However, this time came and went without "Apollo 8" reappearing.
Lovell continued to describe the terrain over which they were passing.
One of the crew's major tasks was reconnaissance of the planned landing sites on the Moon, especially one in Mare Tranquillitatis that would be the "Apollo 11" landing site.
The launch time of "Apollo 8" had been chosen to give the best lighting conditions for the site.
A film camera had been set up in one of the windows to record a frame every second of the Moon below.
Bill Anders would spend much of the next 20 hours taking as many photographs as possible of targets of interest.
By the end of the mission the crew would take 700 photographs of the Moon and 150 of the Earth.
Throughout the hour that the spacecraft was in contact with the Earth, Borman kept asking how the data for the SPS looked.
He wanted to make sure that the engine was working and could be used to return early to the Earth if necessary.
He also asked that they receive a Go/No Go decision before they passed behind the Moon on each orbit.
As they reappeared for their second pass in front of the Moon, the crew set up the television to broadcast a view of the lunar surface.
Anders described the craters that they were passing over.
Over the next two orbits the crew continued to keep check of the spacecraft and to observe and photograph the Moon.
During the third pass, Borman read a small Episcopal Church near Seabrook, Texas, but due to the Apollo 8 flight was unable.
A fellow parishioner and engineer at Mission Control, Rod Rose, suggested that Borman read the prayer which could be recorded and then replayed during the service.
It was as the spacecraft came out from behind the Moon for its fourth pass across the front that the crew witnessed an event never before seen&nbsp;&mdash; Earthrise.
Anders glanced out the window and saw a blue and white orb and realized it was the Earth.
Instantly the crew understood that they needed to take a photograph of this.
Anders took both the first photograph, which was black-and-white, and later, the more famous color photo.
Borman and Anders both claimed they took the first Earthrise photo&nbsp;&mdash; Lovell also did, more as a joke than anything else&nbsp;&mdash; but it was determined that it was probably Anders.
It should be noted that, due to the limb, where libration carries the Earth slightly above and below the lunar horizon.
Anders continued to take photographs while Lovell took the controls of the spacecraft so that Borman could get some rest.
As always, resting was difficult in the cramped and noisy capsule, though Borman was able to doze for two orbits.
He would awaken at times to ask a question about their status, only to be told that everything was going fine.
Borman did wake up, however, when he started to hear his fellow crew members make mistakes.
They were beginning to not understand questions and would have to ask for the answers to be repeated.
Borman realized that everyone was extremely tired having not had a good night's sleep in over three days.
Taking command, he ordered Anders and Lovell to get some sleep and that the rest of the flight plan regarding observing the Moon be scrubbed.
At first Anders protested saying that he was fine, but Borman would not be swayed.
At last Anders agreed as long as the commander would set up the camera to continue to take automatic shots of the Moon.
Borman also remembered that there was a second television broadcast planned, and with so many people expected to be watching he wanted the crew to be alert.
For the next two orbits Anders and Lovell slept while Borman sat at the helm.
As they rounded the Moon for the ninth time, the second television transmission began.
Borman introduced the crew, followed by each man giving his impression of the lunar surface and what it was like to be orbiting the Moon.
The burn occurred perfectly on time.
The spacecraft telemetry was reacquired as it re-emerged from behind the Moon at 89 hours, 28 minutes, and 39 seconds, the exact time predicted.
When voice contact was regained, Lovell announced, "Please be informed, there is a Santa Claus", to which Ken Mattingly, the capcom, replied, "That's affirmative, you are the best ones to know".
It was Christmas Day, 1968.
Later, Lovell used some otherwise idle time to do some navigational sightings, maneuvering the module to view various stars by using the computer keyboard.
Once the crew realized why the computer had changed the module's attitude, they realized they would have to re-enter data that would tell the computer its real position.
It took Lovell ten minutes to figure out the right numbers, using the thrusters to get the stars Rigel and Sirius aligned, and another fifteen minutes to enter the corrected data into the computer.
The cruise back to Earth was mostly a time for the crew to relax and monitor the spacecraft.
On Christmas afternoon, the crew made their fifth and final television broadcast.
This time they gave a tour of the spacecraft, showing how an astronaut lived in space.
When they had finished broadcasting they found a small present from turkey with stuffing and three miniature bottles of brandy (which remained unopened).
There were also small presents to the crew from their wives.
After two uneventful days the crew prepared for re-entry.
The computer would control the re-entry and all the crew had to do was put the spacecraft in the correct attitude, blunt end forward.
If the computer broke down, Borman would take over.
After separating from the Service Module, all the crew could do was sit and wait.
Six minutes before they hit the top of the atmosphere, the crew saw the Moon rising above the Earth's horizon, just as had been predicted by the trajectory specialists.
As they hit the thin outer atmosphere they noticed it was becoming hazy outside as glowing attitude of the capsule, "Apollo 8" rose briefly like a skipping stone before descending to the ocean.
At 30,000&nbsp;feet (9&nbsp;km) the drogue parachute stabilized the spacecraft and was followed at 10,000&nbsp;feet (3&nbsp;km) by the three main parachutes.
When it hit the water, the parachutes dragged the spacecraft over and left it upside down, in what was termed Stable 2 position.
As they were buffeted by a 10-foot (3&nbsp;m) swell, Borman was sick, waiting for the three flotation balloons to right the capsule.
Forty-five minutes later they were on the deck of the aircraft carrier.
The command module is now displayed at the Museum of Science and Industry, along with a collection of personal items from the flight donated by Lovell and the spacesuit worn by Frank Borman.
Jim Lovell's spacesuit can be found at NASA's Glenn Research Center.
They had been the first people ever to leave the gravitational influence of the Earth and orbit another celestial body.
They had survived a mission that even the crew themselves had rated as only having a fifty-fifty chance of fully succeeding.
One of the most famous aspects of the flight was the Earthrise picture that was taken as they came around for their fourth orbit of the Moon.
Although it was not the first image taken of the whole Earth nor would it be the last, this was the first time that humans had taken such a picture.
Some regard the picture as being the start of the environmentalist movement, with the first Earth Day in 1970.
The mission was the most widely covered by the media since the first American orbital flight, Mercury-Atlas 6 by John Glenn in 1962.
There were 1200 journalists covering the mission, with the BBC coverage being broadcast in 54 countries in 15 different languages.
The triangular shape of the insignia symbolizes the shape of the Apollo command module.
It shows a red figure 8 looping around the earth and moon representing the mission number as well as the circumlunar nature of the mission.
On the red number 8 are the names of the three astronauts.
The initial design of the insignia was developed by Jim Lovell.
Lovell reportedly sketched the initial design while riding in the backseat of a T-38 flight from California to Houston, shortly after learning of the re-designation of the flight to become a circumlunar mission.
Spacecraft films released all of the TV transmissions, and 16&nbsp;mm footage shot on Apollo 8, as a three-disc DVD set, in 2003.
Portions of the Apollo 8 Mission can be seen in the documentary For All Mankind.
The Apollo 8 Command Module is on display at the Museum of Science and Industry's Henry Crown Space Center, Chicago.
Portions of the Apollo 8 mission are dramatized in the miniseries "UFO" episode "Conflict".
While generally reserved for professional space travelers, the term is sometimes applied to anyone who travels into space, including scientists, politicians, journalists, and tourists.
Until 2003, astronauts were sponsored and trained exclusively by governments, either by the military, or by civilian space agencies.
However, with the first sub-orbital flight of the privately-funded commercial astronaut.
With the rise of space tourism, NASA and the Russian Federal Space Agency agreed to use the term "spaceflight participant" to distinguish those space travelers from astronauts on missions coordinated by those two agencies.
The criteria for what constitutes human astronaut wings.
Of these, 24 people have traveled beyond Low Earth orbit, to either lunar or trans-lunar orbit or to the surface of the moon; three of the 24 did so twice (Lovell, Young and Cernan).
According to the FAI guideline, 466 people qualify under the U. S. definition as having reached orbit.
Space travelers have spent over 30,400 spacewalks.
In the United States and many other balloonists.
Earth orbit or beyond.
By convention, an astronaut employed by the Greek words "kosmos" (universe) and "nautes" (sailor).
For the most part, "cosmonaut" and "astronaut" are synonyms in all languages, and the usage of choice is often dictated by political reasons.
On March 14, 1995, Norman Thagard became the first American to ride to space on board a Russian launch vehicle, arguably becoming the first "American cosmonaut" in the process.
While no nation other than Russia (formerly the Soviet Union), the United States, and China has launched a manned spacecraft, several other nations have sent people into space in cooperation with one of these countries.
Inspired partly by these missions, other synonyms for astronaut have entered occasional English usage.
The first human in space was Russian Yuri Gagarin, who was launched into space on April 12 1961 aboard Vostok 1.
The first woman was Russian Valentina Tereshkova, launched into space in June 1963 aboard Vostok 6.
The first mission to orbit the moon was "Apollo 8", which included William Anders who was born in Hong Kong, making him the first Asian-born astronaut in 1968.
On 15 October 2003, Yang Liwei became China's first astronaut on the Shenzhou 5 spacecraft.
The Soviet Union, through its Soyuz rocket.
On Asian in space when he flew aboard Soyuz 37.
Also in 1980, Afghan to reach space, spending nine days aboard the Mir space station.
In 2002, Mark Shuttleworth became the first citizen of an African country to fly in space, as a paying spaceflight participant.
The youngest person to fly in space is Russian Gherman Titov, who was 25 years old when he flew Vostok 2.
The oldest person who has flown in space is John Glenn, who was 77 when he flew on STS-95.
The longest stay in space was 438 days, by Russian Valeri Polyakov.
The first self-funded space tourist was Dennis Tito onboard the Russian spacecraft Soyuz TM-3 on 28 April 2001.
The first person to fly on an entirely privately-funded mission was Mike Melvill, piloting SpaceShipOne flight 15P on a sub-orbital journey, although he was a test pilot employed by Scaled Composites and not an actual paying space tourist.
Once selected, NASA astronauts go through 20 months of training in a variety of areas, including training for Johnson Space Center.
Ellington Field is also where the Shuttle Training Aircraft is maintained and developed, although most flights of the aircraft are done out of Edwards Air Force Base.
The Educator Astronaut program is a successor to the Teacher in Space program from the 1980s.
At NASA, people who complete astronaut candidate training receive a silver lapel pin.
Once they have flown in space, they receive a gold pin.
Astronaut Badge, after participation on a spaceflight.
The United States Air Force also presents an Astronaut Badge to its pilots who exceed 50 miles (80 km) in altitude.
Space travel carries with it inherent risk and dangers.
To date, nineteen people have been killed on five spaceflight missions, and at least ten more have been killed in ground-based training accidents.
The modern phrase "a modest proposal" derives from the work.
Swift goes to great lengths to support his argument, including a list of possible preparation styles for the children, and calculations showing the financial benefits of his suggestion.
Swift couches his arguments in then-current events, exploiting common prejudice against Papists and slyly pointing out their depredations of England.
After enumerating the benefits of his proposal, Swift addresses possible objections including the depopulation of Ireland and a litany of other solutions which he dismisses as impractical.
Even today, readers unacquainted with its reputation as a satirical work often do not immediately realize that Swift was not seriously proposing cannibalism (and of course, infanticide).
It is no longer true, as it was in Swift's time, that any educated reader would be familiar with the satires of Horace and Juvenal, and so recognize that Swift's essay follows the rules and structure of Latin satires.
A Modest Proposal also targets the calculating way people perceived the poor in designing their projects.
Swift has his proposer further degrade the Irish by using language ordinarily reserved for animals.
You Eaten Yet?
Journal of the History of Ideas 4.1 (1943): 75-104.
It also serves as an exceptional introduction to the concept and use of argumentative language, lending itself well to secondary and post-secondary essay courses.
It has been emulated many times as well.
In his book "A Modest Proposal" (1984), evangelical author Frank Schaeffer emulated Swift's work in social conservative polemic against abortion and euthanasia in a future dystopia that advocated recycling of aborted embryos and fetuses, as well as some disabled infants with compound intellectual, physical and physiological difficulties.
The game "Orphan Feast" on Cartoon Network's AdultSwim website is loosely based on "A Modest Proposal".
The alkali metals are all highly reactive and are rarely found in elemental form in nature.
As a result, in the laboratory they are stored under mineral oil.
They also tarnish easily and have low melting points and densities.
Potassium and rubidium possess a weak radioactive characteristic (harmless) due to the presence of long duration radioactive isotopes.
The alkali metals are silver-colored (cesium has a golden tinge), soft, low-charged positive ion, or cation.
Alkali metals have the lowest ionization potentials in their respective periods, as removing the single electron from the outermost shell gives them the stable inert gas configuration.
But their second ionization potentials are very high, as removing an electron from a species having a noble gas configuration is very difficult.
Alkali metals are famous for their vigorous reactions with water, and these reactions become increasingly violent as one moves down the group.
Alkali metals dissolve in liquid ammonia to give blue solutions that are paramagnetic.
As the solution approaches saturation, it becomes deep purple, then metallic.
Because the solution contains free electrons, it occupies more space than the sum of the volumes of the metal and ammonia.
The presence of free electrons also makes these solutions very good electrical conductors.
Since they are easier to handle than the metals themselves they are sometimes used as substitutes.
The solution is not stable over long periods, and the dissolved alkali metal will react to form the corresponding amide.
The alkali metals show a number of trends when moving down the group - for instance, decreasing electronegativity, increasing reactivity, and decreasing melting and boiling point.
Density generally increases, with the notable exception of potassium being less dense than sodium, and the possible exception of francium being less dense than caesium.
All humans are mortal.
Socrates is human.
Socrates is mortal.
All humans are mortal.
Socrates is human.
Socrates is mortal.
So argument form "C" is the form of argument "A".
Moreover, each individual sentence of "C" is the "sentence" "form" of its respective sentence in "A".
Attention is given to argument and sentence form, because "form is what makes an argument cogent".
Some examples of valid argument forms are modus ponens, modus tollens, and the disjunctive syllogism.
Two invalid argument forms are affirming the consequent and denying the antecedent.
Hurley, Patrick J. (1988).
An "alphabet" is a standardized set of "Arabic.
A grapheme is an abstract entity which may be physically represented by different styles of glyphs.
There are many written entities which do not form part of the alphabet, including numerals, mathematical symbols, and punctuation.
Some human languages are commonly written by using a combination of logograms (which represent morphemes or words) and syllabaries (which represent syllables) instead of an alphabet.
Egyptian hieroglyphs and Chinese characters are two of the best-known writing systems with predominantly non-alphabetic representations.
Non-written languages may also be represented alphabetically.
For example, linguists researching a non-written language (such as some of the indigenous Amerindian languages) will use the International Phonetic Alphabet to enable them to write down the sounds they hear.
Most, if not all, linguistic writing systems have some means for phonetic approximation of foreign words, usually using the native character set.
The history of the alphabet starts in 22 hieroglyphs to represent syllables that begin with a single consonant of their language, plus a vowel (or no vowel) to be supplied by the native speaker.
These glyphs were used as pronunciation guides for logograms, to write grammatical inflections, and, later, to transcribe loan words and foreign names.
However, although seemingly alphabetic in nature, the original Egyptian uniliterals were not a system and were never used by themselves to encode Egyptian speech.
In the Proto-Sinaitic script is thought by some to have been developed in central Egypt around 1700 BCE for or by Semitic workers, but only one of these early writings has been deciphered and their exact nature remains open to interpretation.
Based on letter appearances and names, it is believed to be based on Egyptian hieroglyphs.
This script eventually developed into the Syriac.
Phoenician was the first major phonemic script.
In contrast to two other widely used writing systems at the time, Cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphs, each of which contained thousands of different characters, it contained only about two dozen distinct letters, making it a script simple enough for common traders to learn.
Another advantage to Phoenician was that it could be used to write down many different languages, since it recorded words phonemically.
The script was spread by the Phoenicians, whose Thalassocracy allowed the script to be spread across the Mediterranean.
In Greece, the script was modified to add the vowels, giving rise to the first true alphabet.
The Greeks took letters which did not represent sounds that existed in Greek, and changed them to represent the vowels.
In its early years, there were many variants of the Greek alphabet, a situation which caused many different alphabets to evolve from it.
The Cumae form was carried over to the Italian peninsula, where it gave rise to a variety of alphabets used to inscribe the Italic languages.
One of these became the Latin alphabet, which was spread across Europe as the Romans expanded their empire.
Even after the fall of the Roman state, the alphabet survived in intellectual and religious works.
It eventually became used for the descendant languages of Latin (the Romance languages), and then for the other languages of Europe.
Another notable script is Elder Futhark, which is believed to have evolved out of one of the Old Italic alphabets.
Elder Futhark gave rise to a variety of alphabets known collectively as the Runic alphabets.
The Runic alphabets were used for Germanic languages from 100 AD to the late Middle Ages.
Its usage was mostly restricted to engravings on stone and jewelry, although inscriptions have also been found on bone and wood.
These alphabets have since been replaced with the Latin alphabet, except for decorative usage for which the runes remained in use until the 20th century.
The Bulgarian scholar Clement of Ohrid, who was their disciple.
They feature many letters that appear to have been borrowed from or influenced by the Greek alphabet and the Hebrew alphabet.
Beyond the logographic Chinese writing, many phonetic scripts are in existence in Asia.
The Arabic alphabet, Hebrew alphabet, Syriac alphabet, and other abjads of the Middle East are developments of the Aramaic alphabet, but because these writing systems are largely consonant-based they are often not considered true alphabets.
Most alphabetic scripts of India and Eastern Asia are descended from the Brahmi script, which is often believed to be a descendent of Aramaic, but this link is controversial.
These scripts are abugidas, that is, they write syllables instead of individual sounds, so their status as alphabets is disputed.
In Korea, the Hangeul alphabet was created, although it may also have been derived from the Mongolian Phagspa script, which in turn was derived from the Brahmi script.
European alphabets, especially Latin and Cyrillic, have been adapted for many languages of Asia.
Arabic is also widely used, sometimes as an abjad (as with Uyghur).
Examples of present-day abjads are the Thai.
The Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics are also an abugida rather than a syllabary as their name would imply, since each glyph stands for a consonant which is modified by rotation to represent the following vowel.
The boundaries between the three types of segmental scripts are not always clear-cut.
For example, Iraqi logographic.
Thus the primary Zhuang.
The number of letters in an alphabet can be quite small.
The Book Demotic.
The largest segmental script is probably an abugida, Devanagari.
The largest known abjad is Georgian, with 41 letters.
It is not always clear what constitutes a distinct alphabet.
It is unknown if the earliest alphabets had a defined sequence.
Some alphabets today, such as Ethiopic.
Both orders have therefore been stable for at least 3000 years.
The Arabic, although Arabic retains the traditional "abjadi order" for numbering.
The Phoenician letter names, in which each letter is associated with a word that begins with that sound, continue to be used in Latin, and Brahmic.
Each language may establish certain general rules that govern the association between letters and phonemes, but, depending on the language, these rules may or may not be consistently followed.
In a perfectly phonological alphabet, the phonemes and letters would correspond perfectly in two directions: a writer could predict the spelling of a word given its pronunciation, and a speaker could predict the pronunciation of a word given its spelling.
However, languages often evolve independently of their writing systems, and writing systems have been borrowed for languages they were not designed for, so the degree to which letters of an alphabet correspond to phonemes of a language varies greatly from one language to another and even within a single language.
National languages generally elect to address the problem of dialects by simply associating the alphabet with the national standard.
However, with an international language with wide variations in its dialects, such as English, it would be impossible to represent the language in all its variations with a single phonetic alphabet.
Some national languages like French, with its silent letters and its heavy use of nasal vowels and elision, may seem to lack much correspondence between spelling and pronunciation, but its rules on pronunciation are actually consistent and predictable with a fair degree of accuracy.
At the other extreme, however, are languages such as English, where the spelling of many words simply has to be memorized as they do not correspond to sounds in a consistent way.
For English, this is because the Great Vowel Shift occurred after the orthography was established, and because English has acquired a large number of loanwords at different times retaining their original spelling at varying levels.
However, even English has general, albeit complex, rules that predict pronunciation from spelling, and these rules are successful most of the time.
Rules to predict spelling from the pronunciation have a high failure rate for English.
Sometimes, countries have the written language undergo a spelling reform in order to realign the writing with the contemporary spoken language.
These can range from simple spelling changes and word forms to switching the entire writing system itself, as when Turkey switched from the Arabic alphabet to the Roman alphabet.
The sounds of speech of all languages of the world can be written by a rather small universal phonetic alphabet.
A standard for this is the International Phonetic Alphabet.
Is it right to say 'the' tomb of the Unknown soldier, shouldn't that be the French tomb of the Unknown soldier or the tomb of the Unknown soldier in France?
I'm severely tempted to say I don't know.
I like the idea of being more specific about which Tomb of the Unknown.
I believe in the United States the Tomb is in Arlington National Cemetary, but I don't know if the tomb is of a soldier killed in the first world war, the second, or the civil war, or what.
I guess one soldier is enough, its the idea that counts.
Regardless, being specific that it's the French Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, is a good revision, do it.
Which is correct?
Sacred fire of Vesta gives a third date, AD 394!
The literal translation of Arc de Triomphe is simple, Arc of Triumph!
The Arc de Triomphe is always called the Arc de Triomphe in English.
However, Le Tour Eiffel is always translated.
I realise yours is a literal translation, I think a more effective translation would be simply "Triumphal Arch".
In neutral charge, atomic number is equal to the number of electrons.
The atomic number is closely related to the mass number, which is the number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus of an atom.
The atomic number originally was used to signify the element's location in the periodic table.
Dmitri Mendeleev arranged the known elements in increasing order of atomic weight and grouped by their similar chemical properties.
However, placing the elements in strict order of atomic weight resulted in some mismatches.
Iodine and tellurium, if listed by atomic weight, appeared to be in the wrong order; and would fit better by chemical properties if their places in the table were swapped.
Placing them in the order which fit their properties most closely, their number in the table was their atomic number.
This number appeared to be related to the mass of the atom but, as the discrepancy showed, reflected some property other than mass.
The anomalies in this sequence were finally explained after research by Henry Gwyn Jeffreys Moseley in 1913.
Moseley discovered a strict relationship between the x-ray diffraction spectra of elements, and their correct location in the periodic table.
This led to the conclusion that the atomic number corresponds to the electric charge of the nucleus &mdash; the charge of the protons.
The atomic number is the number of protons that is equal to the number of electrons.
Each element has a specific set of chemical properties as a consequence of the number of protons in its nucleus.
The charge of an atom's nucleus defines its electron configuration based on principles of quantum mechanics.
The form of each element's electron shells, particularly the valence shell, is the primary factor in determining its chemical bonding behavior.
The quest for new elements is usually described using atomic number.
As of early 2007, elements with atomic numbers through 118 (excluding 117) have been discovered.
Synthesis of new elements is accomplished by bombarding target atoms of heavy elements with ions, such that the sum of the atomic numbers of the target and ion elements equals the atomic number of the element being created.
In general, the half-life becomes shorter as atomic number increases, though an "island of stability" may exist for undiscovered isotopes with certain numbers of protons and neutrons.
Anatomy is subdivided into gross anatomy (or macroscopic anatomy) and microscopic anatomy.
Gross anatomy (also called topographical anatomy, regional anatomy, or anthropotomy) is the study of anatomical structures that can be seen by unaided vision.
Microscopic anatomy is the study of minute anatomical structures assisted with microscopes, which includes histology (the study of the organisation of tissues), and cytology (the study of cells).
The organs and structures in the body.
Methods have also advanced dramatically, advancing from examination of animals through dissection of cadavers (dead human bodies) to technologically complex techniques developed in the 20th century.
Anatomy should not be confused with organs.
Human anatomy, including gross morphology of the adult human body.
Generally, students of certain medical students learn gross anatomy and microscopic anatomy from anatomical models, skeletons, textbooks, diagrams, photographs, lectures and tutorials.
The study of microscopic anatomy (or histology) can be aided by practical experience examining histological preparations (or slides) under a microscope; and in addition, medical students generally also learn gross anatomy with practical experience of dissection and inspection of cadavers (dead human bodies).
A thorough working knowledge of anatomy is required by all surgeons, and doctors working in some diagnostic specialities, such as histopathology and radiology.
Anthropological anatomy or physical anthropology relates to the comparison of the anatomy of different races of humans.
Artistic anatomy relates to anatomic studies for artistic reasons.
If "P", then "Q".
Arguments of this form are invalid (except in the rare cases where such an argument also instantiates some other, valid, form).
Informally, this means that arguments of this form do not give good reason to establish their conclusions, even if their premises are true.
One way to demonstrate the invalidity of this argument form is with a counterexample with true premises but an obviously false conclusion.
If Bill Gates owns Fort Knox, then he is rich.
Bill Gates is rich.
Therefore, Bill Gates owns Fort Knox.
If I have the flu, then I have a sore throat.
I have a sore throat.
Therefore, I have the flu.
But many illnesses cause sore throat, such as the common cold or strep throat.
Thus this argument is weak at best.
As noted above, it is possible that an argument that affirms the consequent could be valid, if the argument instantiates some other valid form.
If he's not inside, then he's outside.
Therefore, he's not inside.
The above argument may be valid, but only if the claim "if he's outside, then he's not inside" follows from the first premise.
Even in such a case, however, the validity stems not from affirming the consequent, but from the form modus ponens.
Arseny Tarkovsky (1962) Andrei Tarkovsky Jr.
Tarkovsky has also worked extensively as a screenwriter, film editor, metaphysical themes, extremely long takes, lack of conventional dramatic structure and plot, and memorable images of exceptional beauty.
Directly after high school graduation, from 1951 to 1952, Tarkovsky studied Krasnoyarsk Province.
During this time in the Taiga Tarkovsky decided to study film.
The early auteur as a necessary condition for creativity.
During his third year at the VGIK Tarkovsky met Andrei Konchalovsky.
They found that they had much in common as they liked the same film directors and shared the same ideas on cinema and films.
In 1959 they wrote the script "Antarctica - Distant Country", which was later published in the Moskovskiy Komsomolets.
Tarkovsky submitted the script to Lenfilm, but was rejected.
They were more successful with the script "The Steamroller and the Violin," which they sold to Mosfilm.
Tarkovsky's first feature film was "Ivan's Childhood" in 1962.
He had inherited the film from director Eduard Abalov, who had to abort the project.
The film earned Tarkovksy international acclaim and won him the Golden Lion award at the Venice Film Festival in 1962.
In the same year, on September 30, his first son Arseny (called Senka in Tarkovsky's diaries) Tarkovsky was born.
The film was officially released in the Soviet Union in a cut version in 1971.
He divorced from his wife Irma Raush in 1970.
The main role was played by Anatoly Solonitsyn who also acted in several of Tarkovsky's films.
Work on this film began in 1976.
The production was mired in troubles.
Improper development of the negatives had ruined all the exterior shots.
Tarkovsky's relationship with the cinematographer Georgy Rerberg deteriorated to the point where Tarkovsky hired Alexander Knyazhinsky as a new first cinematographer.
Furthermore, Tarkovsky suffered a heart attack in April 1978, resulting in further delay.
The film was completed in 1979 and won the Prize of the Ecumenical Jury at the Cannes Film Festival.
During the summer of 1979 Tarkovsky traveled to Italy, where he shot the documentary Voyage in Time together with his longtime friend Tonino Guerra.
During 1981 he traveled to the United Kingdom and Sweden.
During his trip to Sweden he had considered defecting the Soviet Union, but ultimately decided to return because his wife and his son.
Soviet authorities prevented the film to win the Palme d'Or, a fact that hardened Tarkovsky's resvolve to never work in the Soviet Union again.
In the same year he also arranged the opera "Boris Godunov" at the Royal Opera House in London under the musical direction of Claudio Abbado.
He spend most of 1984 preparing the film "The Sacrifice".
On July 10, 1984 he announced that he would never return to the Soviet Union and would remain in the West at a press conference in Milano.
At this time his son Andrei Jr.
Soviet Union and not allowed to leave the country.
As Tarkovsky was unable to attend due to his illness, the prizes were collected by his son Andrei Jr.
Tarkovsky kept fairly regular diaries from 1970 until shortly before his death.
The last entry was on December 15, 1986.
His last words are "But now I have no strength left - that is the problem".
Tarkovsky became a film director during the mid and late 1950s, a period during which Soviet society opened to foreign films, literature and music.
This allowed Tarkovksy to see films of European, American and Japanese directors, an experience which influenced his own film making.
His teacher and mentor at the film school Mikhail Romm allowed his students considerable freedom and emphasized the independence of the film director.
With the exception of "City Lights" the list does not contain any films or directors of the early silent era.
The reason is that Tarkovsky saw film as an art as only a relatively recent phenomena, with the early film-making forming only a prelude.
The list has also no films or directors from Tarkovsky's native Russia, although he rated Soviet directors such as Boris Barnet and Alexander Dovzhenko highly.
Tarkovsky's films are characterised by Christian and metaphysical themes, extremely long takes, and memorable images of exceptional beauty.
Recurring motifs in his films are dreams, memory, childhood, running water accompanied by fire, rain indoors, reflections, levitation, and characters re-appearing in the foreground of long panning movements of the camera.
Tarkovsky developed a theory of cinema that he called "sculpting in time".
By this he meant that the unique characteristic of cinema as a medium was to take our experience of time and alter it.
Unedited movie footage transcribes time in real time.
By using long takes and few cuts in his films, he aimed to give the viewers a sense of time passing, time lost, and the relationship of one moment in time to another.
After Mirror, he announced that he would focus his work on exploring the dramatic unities proposed by Aristotle: a concentrated action, happening in one place, within the span of a single day.
Numerous awards were bestowed on Tarkovsky throughout his lifetime.
The use of multi-defined words requires the author or speaker to clarify their context, and sometimes elaborate on their specific intended meaning (in which case, a less ambiguous term should have been used).
More problematic are words whose senses express closely-related concepts.
This is often the case, for example, with idiomatic expressions whose definitions are rarely or never well-defined, and are presented in the context of a larger argument that invites a conclusion.
Words "run", "flesh", "file", "archieve" provide rich filed for ambiguity.
Imagine, how can spound the sentence about electric cirquits in railroads: "the naked conductor runs along the wagon".
The non-complete overlapping of meanings of words in various languages is rather rule than exception.
Such ambiguity is main difficulty of the authomatic translation; in general, the correct translation without semantic context is impossible.
In literature and rhetoric, on the other hand, ambiguity can be a useful tool.
In narrative, ambiguity can be introduced in several ways: motive, plot, character.
Scott Fitzgerald uses the latter type of ambiguity with notable effect in his novel "The Great Gatsby".
All religions debate the orthodoxy or heterodoxy of ambiguity.
Christianity and Judaism employ the concept of paradox synonymously with 'ambiguity'.
Ambiguity within Christianity (and other religions) is resisted by the conservatives and fundamentalists, who regard the concept as equating with 'contradiction'.
Non-fundamentalist Christians and Jews endorse Rudolf Otto's description of the sacred as 'mysterium tremendum et fascinans', the awe-inspiring mystery which fascinates humans.
For example, AU may mean Atomic Unit, Astronomical unit, as well as Arbitrary Unit, American University, and a lot of other things.
Simple transmutation of the same two letters gives University of Arizona (which is 200 km away from the Arizona State University), United Airlines, Unidad Administrativa (Spanish) and so on.
Many cryptic acronyms spell words that also have a different meaning, such as the "Rental Update Notification," "Research Unit in Networking," or "Resource Utilization Number" (RUN), which also has 130 other formally-defined meanings.
This is often true if an abbreviation is constructed of several run-together lowercase words is used, as in a URL.
A person defining, or trying to interpret, ambiguous abbreviations must be very careful.
One seldom knows, how many concepts may have an apparently-obvious abbreviation.
Oops, I misplaced the file with funny abbreviations.
I shall pass them here as soon as I find it.
The same concept (object, process, or thing) may have two-or-more very-different synonym names within the enterprise, industry and government.
These types of ambiguity are further compounded by the common use of departmental abreviations, jargon, or acronyms that are quite context-specific.
Familiar abbreviations accelerate communication within a well-known context (department), but they INCREASE critical enterprise miscommunication between departments.
An Enterprise Architecture glossary must disambiguate such miscommunication, specify context for every important definition (and possibly hyperlink to more-detailed documentation, or the named system, process, or form itself).
The Internet / Intranet now makes this much easier to do, and enterprise internal-and-external communication quality.
Enterprise application integration and inter-departmental metadata management are therefore improving greatly.
The enterprise disambiguation glossary acts somewhat like a vocabulary-based search engine, to help improve reuse of previously-developed concepts.
The glossary is also reducing redundancy and reinventing the wheel, to cut costs, and improve quality, consistency and productivity.
Eliminate the need for each piece of internal documentation to develop its own unique context-specific glossary attachment (saving even more time, effort, and redundant, inconsistent, voluminous, information storage space, publication fees, access time, and data-retrieval transportation cost).
An increasing amount of research is concentrating on how people react and respond to ambiguous and uncertain situations.
Much of this focuses on ambiguity tolerance.
Ambiguity, in law, is of two kinds, patent and latent.
In the case of a patent ambiguity parol evidence is admissible to explain only what has been written, not what it was intended to write.
A latent ambiguity may be explained by parol evidence, for, as the ambiguity has been brought about by circumstances extraneous to the instrument, the explanation must necessarily be sought for from such circumstances.
Some attempts at language improvement have been criticized.
Languages composed from many diverse sources contain much ambiguity and inconsistity.
The many exceptions to syntax and semantic rules are time-consuming and difficult to learn.
The lexical, syntactic and semantic ambiguities mentioned above.
It is common practice to omit multiplication signs in mathematical expressions.
Creators of algorithmic languages try to avoid ambiguities.
Many algorithmic languages (C++, MATLAB, Fortran, Maple) require the character * as symbol of multiplication.
The language Mathematica allows the user to omit the multiplication symbol, but requires square brackets to indicate the argument of a function; square brackets are not allowed for grouping of expressions.
The order of operations may depend on the context.
In most programming languages, the operations of division and multiplication have equal priority and are executed from left to right.
Comma in subscripts and superscripts sometimes is omitted; it is also ambiguous notation.
Some scientific journals use superscripts to indicate citations.
If one cites reference number 6 about coherent addition of lasers, the centenve may read as follows: Practically, the number of lasers, which can be combined in such a way, does not exceed 106.
Some physical quantities do not yet have established notations; their value (and sometimes even dimension, as in the case of the Einstein coefficients) depends on the system of notations.
A highly confusing term is gain.
For example, the sentence "the gain of a system should be doubled", without context, means close to nothing.
It may mean that the ratio of the output voltage of an electric circuit to the input voltage should be doubled.
It may mean that the ratio of the output power of an electric or optical circuit to the input power should be doubled.
It may mean that the gain of the laser medium should be doubled, for example, doubling the population of the upper laser level in a quasi-two level system (assuming negligible absorption of the ground-state).
Also, confusions may be related with the use of resolution of an imaging system, as measure of the size of the smallest detail which still can be resolved at the background of statistical noise.
See also Accuracy and precision and its talk.
Many terms are ambiguous.
Each use of an ambiguous term should be preceded by the definition, suitable for a specific case.
The Berry paradox arises as a result of systematic ambiguity.
Terms of this kind give rise to vicious circle fallacies.
One of the most distinctive characteristic of the Tubulidentata is (as the name implies) their teeth.
Instead of having a taxa.
The Aardvark is vaguely pig-like.
Its body is stout with an arched back and is sparsely covered with coarse hairs.
The limbs are of moderate length.
An aardvark's weight is typically between 40 and 65 kg.
An aardvark's length is usually between 1 and 1.3 meters, and can reach lengths of 2.2 meters when its tail (which can be up to 70 centimeters) is taken into account.
The aardvark is pale yellowish gray in color,and often stained reddish-brown by soil.
The aardvark's coat is thin and the animal's primary protection is its tough skin.
The aardvark has been known to sleep in a recently excavated ant nest, which also serves as protection.
The number of aardvarks has nearly doubled since 2002, scientists say.
The Aardvark is nocturnal and is a solitary creature that feeds almost exclusively on ants and termites (formicivore); the only fruit eaten by aardvarks is the aardvark cucumber.
An aardvark emerges from its burrow in the late afternoon or shortly after sunset, and forages over a considerable home range encompassing 10 to 30 kilometers, swinging its long nose from side to side to pick up the scent of food.
It is an exceptionally fast digger, but otherwise moves fairly slowly.
Its claws enable it to dig through the extremely hard crust of a termite mound quickly, avoiding the dust by sealing the nostrils.
When successful, the aardvark's long (as long as 30 centimeters) tongue licks up the insects; the termites's stinging attacks are rendered futile by the tough skin.
Its keen hearing warns it of predators: lions, leopards, hyenas, and pythons.
Aside from digging out ants and termites, the aardvark also excavates burrows in which to live: temporary sites are scattered around the home range as refuges, and a main burrow is used for breeding.
Main burrows can be deep and extensive, have several entrances and can be as long as 13 meters.
The Aardvark changes the layout of its home burrow regularly, and from time to time moves on and makes a new one; the old burrows are then inhabited by smaller animals like the African Wild Dog.
Only mothers and young share burrows.
If attacked in the tunnel, it will seal the tunnel off behind itself or turn around and attack with its claws.
At six months of age it is able to dig its own burrows, but it will often remain with the mother until the next mating season, and is sexually capable by the season after that.
Aardvarks can live to be over 24 years old in captivity.
The aardvark's main predators are lions, leopards, hunting dogs and pythons.
Aardvarks can dig fast or run in zigzag fashion to elude enemies, but if all else fails, they will strike with their claws, tail and shoulders, sometimes flipping onto their backs to lash with all fours.
Their thick skin also protects them to some extent.
In African folklore the aardvark is much admired because of its diligent quest for food and its fearless response to soldier ants.
Hausa magicians make a charm from the heart, skin, forehead, and nails of the aardvark, which they then proceed to pound together with the root of a certain tree.
Wrapped in a piece of skin and worn on the chest the charm is said to give the owner the ability to pass through walls or roofs at night.
Two geographically separate subspecies are recognized: "Proteles cristatus cristatus" of Eastern and Northeastern Africa.
It is usually placed in the Hyaenidae, though formerly separated in another family (Protelidae).
It is 55&ndash;80 cm long, excluding its bushy 20&ndash;30 cm tail, stands about 40&ndash;50 cm at the shoulder, and weighs between 9 and 14 kg.
Its front feet have 5 toes.
Its teeth and skull are similar to that of the hyena, although the cheek teeth are specialised for eating insects, and its tongue for licking them up.
As the aardwolf ages, it will normally lose some of its teeth, though this has little impact on their feeding habits due to the soft nature of the insects they consume.
It has two glands at the rear that secrete a musky fluid for marking territory and communicating with other aardwolves.
The aardwolf lives on open, dry plains and farmland.
For most of the year, aardwolves spend time in shared territories consisting of up to a dozen dens which are occupied for six weeks at a time.
There are two distinct populations: one in Southern Africa, and another in East and Northeast Africa.
The species does not occur in the intermediary miombo forests.
Aardwolves are shy and nocturnal, sleeping in underground burrows by day.
They usually use existing burrows of aardvarks, Old World porcupines or springhares, despite being capable of creating their own.
By night, an aardwolf can consume up to 200,000 harvester termites using its sticky, long tongue.
They take special care not to destroy the termite mound or consume the entire colony, which ensures that the termites can rebuild and provide a continuous supply of food.
They will often memorise and return to nests to save the trouble of finding a new one.
They are also known to feed on other insects, larvae, and eggs, and occasionally small mammals and birds.
Unlike other hyenas, it does not scavenge or kill larger animals.
The aardwolf is primarily captivity.
Adobe structures are extremely durable and account for the oldest extant buildings on the planet.
Adobe buildings also offer significant advantages in hot, dry climates; they remain cooler as adobe stores and releases heat very slowly.
A distinction is sometimes made between the smaller "adobes," which are about the size of ordinary baked bricks, and the larger "adobines," some of which are as much as from one to two yards long.
An adobe brick is made of clay mixed with water and an organic material such as straw or animal dung.
The soil composition typically contains clay and sand.
Bricks are made in an open frame; 25 cm (10 inches) by 36 cm (14 inches) is a reasonable size, but any convenient size is acceptable.
The mixture is molded by the frame, and then the frame is removed quickly.
After drying a few hours, the bricks are turned on edge to finish drying.
Slow drying (shaded) avoids cracking.
The same mixture to make bricks, less the straw, is used for mortar and often for plaster on interior and exterior walls.
Some ancient cultures used lime-based cement for the plaster to protect against rain damage.
An adobe wall can serve as a significant heat reservoir.
A south-facing (in the Northern Hemisphere) adobe wall may be left uninsulated to moderate heating and cooling.
Ideally, it should be thick enough to remain cool on the inside during the heat of the day but thin enough to transfer heat through the wall during the evening.
The exterior of such a wall can be covered with glass to increase heat collection.
In a passive solar home, such a wall is called a Trombe wall.
Adobe has a relatively dense thermal mass; therefore this type of construction is most useful in tropical climates.
In temperate climates it is less effective to heat a structure this way due to heat leaching by the ground and walls.
When building an adobe structure, the ground should be compressed because the weight of adobe bricks is significantly greater than a frame house and may cause cracking in the wall.
The footing is dug and compressed once again.
Footing depth depends on region of site and its ground frost level.
The footing and stem wall are commonly 24" and 14", much larger than a frame house because of the weight of the walls.
Adobe bricks are laid by course.
Each course is laid the whole length of the wall, overlapping at the corners on a layer of adobe mortar.
Adobe walls usually never rise above 2 stories because they're load bearing and have low structural strength.
When putting in window and door openings, a lintel is placed on top of the opening to support the bricks above.
Within the last courses of brick, bond beams are laid across the top of the bricks to provide a horizontal bearing plate for the roof to distribute the weight more evenly along the wall.
To protect the interior and exterior adobe wall, finishes can be applied, such as mud plaster, whitewash or stucco.
These finishes protect the adobe wall from water damage but are high maintenance in that they need to be reapplied periodically, or the adobe walls can be finished with other nontraditional plasters that provide longer protection.
The traditional adobe roof has been generally constructed using a mixture of soil/clay, water, sand, and other organic materials that were at hand.
The mixture was then formed and pressed into specially constructed wood forms to promise rows of dried, earth bricks that would then be laid across a support structure of wood and plastered into place with more adobe.
To gain a deeper understanding of adobe, one would only have to look over to a cob building for inspiration.
Cob, which is a close cousin to adobe, contains proportioned amounts of soil, clay, water, manure, and straw.
This fusion is blended, but not separated into forms like adobe.
Cob is then spread and piled around a frame and allowed to air dry for several months before habitation.
Adobe, then, can be described as dried bricks of cob, stacked and mortared together with more adobe mixture to create a thick wall and/or roof.
Depending on the materials at hand, a roof can be assembled using cut lengths of wood or metal to create a frame work to begin the layering of adobe bricks.
This method was demonstrated with an adobe blend heavily impregnated with cement to allow even drying and to prevent any major cracking.
More traditional adobe roofs were often flatter than the familiar steeped roof as the native climate yielded more sun and heat than mass amounts of snow or rain that would find use in precipitous roofs.
Moisture, however, is often foe to a composite of mud and organic matter, so the introduction of cement is often more common to help ward off any undue water damage.
It is at this turn that sense is required before the construction of any adobe is begun, be sure that the location for such a structure is similar to the climate it naturally comes from, that is, a hot, arid climate.
Cool and moist climates would do well with moisture precautions planned out.
To raise a flattened adobe roof, beams of wood or metal should be assembled and span the extent of the building.
Once the beams are laid across the building, it is then time to begin the placing of adobe bricks to create the roof.
An adobe roof is often laid with bricks slightly larger in width to ensure a larger expanse is covered and when placing the bricks onto the beams.
This wider shape also provides the future homeowner with thermal protection enough to stabilize an even temperature through out the year.
Adobe roofs can be inherently fire-proof, an attribute well received when the fireplace is kept lit during the cold nights, depending on the materials used.
This feature leads the homeowner and builders to begin thinking about the installation of a chimney, a feat regarded as a necessity in any adobe building.
The construction of the chimney can also greatly influence the construction of the roof supports, creating an extra need for care in choosing the right materials.
An adobe chimney can be made from simple adobe bricks and stacked in similar fashion as the surrounding walls.
Basically outline the location and perimeter of the hearth, minding the safety elements common to a fireplace, and begin to stack and mortar the walls with pre-made adobe bricks, cut to size.
The term is more popularly used in reference to physical activities that have some potential for danger, such as skydiving, mountain climbing, and extreme sports.
The term is broad enough to refer to any enterprise that is potentially fraught with risk, such as a business venture or a major life undertaking.
An adventurer is a person who bases their lifestyle or their fortunes on adventurous acts.
For some people, adventure becomes a major pursuit in and of itself.
Adventurous activities are typically undertaken for the purposes of recreation or excitement, such as multi-sport adventure racing or a traveler's adventure tourism.
However, an adventurous activity can lead to gains in knowledge, such as in the case of the numerous pioneers who have explored and charted the Earth and, in recent times, traveled into space and to the Moon.
As a more modern example, adventure education makes use of challenging experiences for learning.
See also full listing.
Chiefly rosette of thick fleshy leaves generally ending in a sharp point and with a spiny margin; the stout stem is usually short, the leaves apparently springing from the root.
Along with plants from the related genus "Yucca", various "Agave" species are popular ornamental plants.
Each rosette is suckers are frequently produced from the base of the stem which become new plants.
It is a common misconception that Agaves are a families, and are not related to cacti.
One of the most familiar species is "Agave americana", a native of tropical America.
Europe about the middle of the 16th century and is now widely cultivated for its handsome appearance; in the variegated forms the leaf has a white or yellow marginal or central stripe from base to apex.
As the leaves unfold from the center of the rosette the impression of the marginal spines is very conspicuous on the still erect younger leaves.
The tequ plants are usually grown in tubs and put out in the summer months, but in the winter require protection from frost.
They mature very slowly and die after flowering, but are easily propagated by the offsets from the base of the stem.
Mexico and is uncommon in its natural habitat.
Unlike most species of "Agave", "A.
Agavaceae, which is currently placed within the order Asparagales.
Agaves were once classified in Liliaceae, but most references now include them in their own family, Agavaceae.
Agaves have long presented special difficulties for taxonomy; variations within a species may be considerable, and a number of named species are of unknown origin and may just be variants of original wild species.
Spanish and Portuguese explorers probably brought agave plants back to Europe with them, but the plants became popular in Europe during the 19th century when many types were imported by collectors.
Some have been continuously propagated by offset since then, and do not consistently resemble any species known in the wild, although this may simply be due to the differences in growing conditions in Europe.
It covers 8.6% of the Earth's total surface area (or 29.4% of its land area) and, with almost 4 billion people, it contains more than 60% of the world's current human population.
Chiefly in the Caspian and Black Seas.
It is bounded to the east by the Pacific Ocean, to the south by the Indian Ocean, and to the north by the Arctic Ocean.
It is interesting to note, in Icelandic Saga, ancient local reflexes of the name of a class of divine beings.
In the far northeast of Asia, Siberia is separated from North America by the Bering Strait.
Australia (or Oceania) is to the southeast.
In geography, there are two schools of thought.
One school follows historical convention and treats Europe and Asia as different continents, categorizing subregions within them for more detailed analysis.
The other school equates the word "continent" with a geographical region when referring to Europe, and use the term "region" to describe Asia in terms of physiography.
The United States, 'Asian American' can mean East Asian Americans, due to the historical and cultural influences of China and Japan on the U.S. up to the 1960s and in preference to the terms 'Oriental' and 'Asiatic'.
However, the term is increasingly taken to include Southeast Asian Americans and South Asian Americans, due to the increasing numbers of them.
Most numbers are from the UNDP from 2002, some numbers exclude certain countries for lack of information.
Asia has the 3rd largest China followed by that of India and that of Japan.
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the economies of China and India have been growing rapidly, both with an average annual growth rate of more than 8%.
Other recent very high growth nations in Asia include the Philippines, Pakistan, Vietnam, Mongolia, Uzbekistan and mineral-rich nations such as Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Brunei, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Oman.
Historically, Japan has had the largest economy in Asia and second-largest of any single nation in the world, after surpassing the Soviet Union (measured in net material product) in 1986 and Germany in 1968.
A number of supernational economies are larger, such as the yen.
Economic growth in Asia since World War II to the 1990s had been concentrated in quite a few countries of the Pacific Rim (Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, and S.Korea).
It is forecasted that China will surpass Japan to have the largest nominal and PPP-adjusted GDP in Asia within a decade.
India is also forecasted to overtake Japan in terms of Nominal GDP by 2020.
Asia is the largest continent in the world by a considerable margin, and it is rich in natural resources, such as petroleum and forests.
Manufacturing in Asia has traditionally been strongest in East and Southeast Asia, particularly in China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and Singapore.
Japan and South Korea continue to dominate in the area of multinational corporations, but increasingly China, Taiwan, and India are making significant inroads.
Many companies from Europe, North America, and Japan have operations in Asia's developing countries to take advantage of its abundant supply of cheap labour and relatively developed infrastructure.
Asia has three main financial centres: English-speaking workers.
The increased use of outsourcing has assisted the rise of India and China as financial centres.
The history of Asia can be seen as the distinct histories of several peripheral coastal regions: East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East, linked by the interior mass of the Central Asian steppes.
The coastal periphery was home to some of the world's earliest known civilizations, each of them developing around fertile river valleys.
The civilizations in Huanghe shared many similarities.
These civilizations may well have exchanged technologies and ideas such as mathematics and the wheel.
Other innovations, such as writing, seem to have been developed individually in each area.
Cities, states, and empires developed in these lowlands.
The central steppe region had long been inhabited by horse-mounted nomads who could reach all areas of Asia from the steppes.
The earliest postulated expansion out of the steppe is that of the Indo-Europeans, who spread their languages into the Middle East, South Asia, and the borders of China, where the Tocharians resided.
The northernmost part of Asia, including much of Siberia, was largely inaccessible to the steppe nomads, owing to the dense forests, climate, and tundra.
These areas remained very sparsely populated.
The center and the peripheries were mostly kept separated by mountains and deserts.
The Gobi deserts formed barriers that the steppe horsemen could cross only with difficulty.
While the urban city dwellers were more advanced technologically and socially, in many cases they could do little in a military aspect to defend against the mounted hordes of the steppe.
However, the lowlands did not have enough open grasslands to support a large horsebound force; for this and other reasons, the nomads who conquered states in China, India, and the Middle East often found themselves adapting to the local, more affluent societies.
Asia is home to several language families and many language isolates.
Most Asian countries have more than one language that is natively spoken.
For instance, according to Ethnologue, more than 600 languages are spoken in Indonesia, more than 415 languages spoken in India, and more than 100 are spoken in the Philippines.
China has many languages and dialects in different provinces.
The French, and other national literatures of Europe and the Americas.
He is also the writer of the national anthems of Bangladesh and India.
Tagore is said to have named another Bengali Indian Nobel prize winner, the 1998 laureate in Economics, Amartya Sen.
Sen's work has centered around global issues including famine, welfare, and third-world development.
Amartya Sen was Master of Trinity College, Cambridge University, UK, from 1998-2004, becoming the first Asian to head an 'Oxbridge' College.
Other Asian writers who won Nobel Prizes include Yasunari Kawabata (Japan, 1966), Kenzaburo Oe (Japan, 1994), Gao Xingjian (China, 2000) and Orhan Pamuk (Turkey, 2006).
Also, Mother Teresa of India and Shirin Ebadi of Iran were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for their significant and pioneering efforts for democracy and human rights, especially for the rights of women and children.
Ebadi is the first Iranian and the first Muslim woman to receive the prize.
Another Nobel Peace Prize winner is Aung San Suu Kyi from Myanmar for her peaceful and non-violent struggle under a military dictatorship in Myanmar.
She is a nonviolent pro-democracy activist and leader of the National League for Democracy in Myanmar (Burma), and a noted prisoner of conscience.
She is a Buddhist and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991.
Asian mythology is diverse.
Asian philosophical traditions originated in India and China and cover a large spectrum of philosophical thoughts and writings.
Indian philosophy includes Hindu philosophy and Buddhist philosophy.
The Zen Buddhism and Shinto took shape.
During the 20th century, in the two most populous countries of Asia, two dramatically different political philosophies took shape.
Gandhi gave a new meaning to Ahimsa, and redefined the concepts of nonviolence and nonresistance.
Other religions of Asia include the Zoroastrianism, Shamanism practiced in Iran and Siberia respectively, and Animism practiced in the eastern parts of the Indian subcontinent and in Southeast Asia.
English also spoken.
Aruba's first inhabitants were the Caquetios Amerindians from the Arawak tribe, who migrated there from Venezuela to escape attacks by the Caribs.
Fragments of the earliest known Indian settlements date back from 1,000 AD.
The Caquetios remained more tied to South America than the Caribbean, due to Aruba's distance from other Caribbean islands and sea currents which made canoe travel to other islands difficult.
Europeans first learned of Aruba when Amerigo Vespucci and Alonso de Ojeda came across it in August 1499.
Vespucci in one of his four letters to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco de' Medici described his voyage to the islands along the coast of Venezuela.
He wrote about an island where most trees are of brazilwood and from this island he went to one ten leagues of where they had houses built as in Venice.
In another letter he described a small island inhabited by very large people, which the expedition thought was not inhabited.
Aruba was colonized by Spain for over a century.
The Cacique or Indian Chief in Aruba, Simas, welcomed the first priests in Aruba and received from them a wooden cross as a gift.
Another governor appointed by Spain was Juan Martinez de Ampues.
In 1528, Ampues was replaced by a representative of the "House of Welser".
Aruba has been under Dutch administration since 1647, initially under Peter Stuyvesant.
Stuyvesant was on a special mission in Aruba in November and December 1642.
Under the Dutch W.I.C. administration, as "New Netherlands and Curacao" from 1648 to 1664 and the Dutch government regulations of 1629, also applied in Aruba.
Britain occupied Aruba from 1799 to 1802, and from 1805 to 1816.
In August 1806, General Francisco de Miranda and a group of 200 freedom fighters on their voyage to liberate Venezuela from Spain stayed in Aruba for several weeks.
In 1933 Aruba sent its first petition for Aruba's separate status and autonomy to the Queen.
During World War II, its refinery was one of the largest in the region, and the main supplier of oil to the Allies.
Aruba became a British protectorate from 1940 to 1942 and a US protectorate from 1942 to 1945.
On February 16, 1942, its oil processing refinery was attacked by a German submarine (U-156) under the command of Werner Hartenstein.
Miraculously, the mission failed.
The U-156 was later destroyed by a US plane as the crew was sunbathing; only one survived.
In March 1944, Eleanor Roosevelt briefly visited American troops stationed in Aruba.
As a Parliament and an eight-member Cabinet.
Together, the State of the Netherlands, the State of the Netherlands Antilles, and the State of Aruba form a Commonwealth.
As they share the same Dutch citizenship, these three countries still also share the Dutch passport as the Kingdom of the Netherlands passport.
As Aruba and the Antilles have small populations, the two countries had to limit immigration.
To protect their population, they have the right to control the admission of Netherlands nationals.
There is the supervision of the admission and expulsion of Netherlands nationals and the setting of general conditions for the admission and expulsion of aliens.
Aruba's "status aparte" as the status of a completely separate and autonomous state within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, under the authority of the Dutch crown.
This is the same as in Britain's Statute of Westminster, an equal status of the Dominion Parliaments with the British Parliament, where the Dominions were under the authority of the crown and not of the government of Britain.
Yarzagaray, a parliamentary member representing the AVP political party, proposed a referendum for the people of Aruba to determine Aruba's separate status or "Status Aparte" as a full autonomous state under the crown.
Betico Croes worked in Aruba to inform and prepare the people of Aruba for independence.
In 1976, a committee appointed by Croes introduced the national flag and anthem as the symbols of Aruba's sovereignty and independence, and he also set 1981 as a target for Aruba's independence.
In March of 1977, the first Referendum for Self Determination was held with the support of the United Nations and 82% of the participants voted for independence.
The Island Government of Aruba assigned the Institute of Social Studies in the Hague to prepare a study of Aruba's independence, which was published in 1978, titled "Aruba en Onafhankelijkheid, achtergronden, modaliteiten en mogelijkheden; een rapport in eerste aanleg".
At the conference in the Hague in 1981, Aruba's independence was then set for the year 1991.
This achievement is largely due to the late Betico Croes and the political support of other nations like the USA, Panama, Venezuela and various European countries.
Croes was later proclaimed "Libertador di Aruba" after his tragic death in 1986.
In 1990, movement toward independence was postponed upon the request of Aruba's Prime Minister, Nelson O. Oduber.
Since January 1, 1986, the Kingdom has consisted of three completely autonomous, constitutionally equal countries: the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Aruba.
Legal jurisdiction lies with a "Gerecht in Eerste Aanleg" (Court of First Instance) on Aruba, a "Gemeenschappelijk Hof van Justitie voor de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba" (Common Court of Justice of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba) and the "Hoge Raad der Nederlanden" (Supreme Court of Justice of the Netherlands).
Dutch system, provides for education at all levels.
The Government finances the national education system, except for private schools, such as the International School of Aruba (ISA), which finance their own activities.
The percentage of money earmarked for education is higher than the average for the Caribbean/Latin American region.
Arubans benefit from a strong primary school education.
A segmented secondary school program includes vocational training (VMBO), basic education (MAVO), college prep (HAVO) and advanced placement (VWO).
Higher education goals can be pursued through the Professional Education program (EPI), the teachers college (IPA) as well as through the University of Aruba (UA) which offers bachelors and masters programs in law, finance and economics and hospitality and tourism management.
Since the choice for higher education on the island itself is limited, many students choose to study abroad in countries in North America, South America as well as Europe.
There are 68 schools for primary education and 12 schools for secondary education.
To the east of Aruba are ABC islands.
Most tourist hotels are located on the leeward side of the island, providing better weather and enjoyment of beaches and ocean.
Aruba enjoys one of the highest standards of living in the Caribbean region and the lowest crime rate; low poverty and unemployment rates are also positives for Aruba.
About half of the Aruban gross national product is earned through tourism or related activities.
The G.D.P. per capita for Aruba is calculated to be around $23,600, one of the highest in the Americas.
In 2006 the Aruban government has also changed several tax laws in order to further reduce the deficit.
Direct taxes have been converted to indirect taxes as proposed by the IMF.
A 3% tax has been introduced on sales and services, while income taxes has been lowered and revenue taxes for business reduced with 20%.
Aruba is situated in the deep southern part of the Caribbean.
Because of almost no rainfall, Aruba was saved from plantation and the economics of the slave trade.
Aruba's population is estimated to be about 80% Aboriginals remain, the features of the islanders clearly indicate their genetic Arawak heritage.
Most of the population is descended mostly from Arawak, and to a lesser extent Spanish, Italian and Dutch and a few French, British and African ancestors.
Recently there has been a substantial immigration to the island from neighboring American and Caribbean nations, attracted by the well-paying jobs.
In 2007 new immigration laws have been introduced to help control the growth of the population, restricting foreign workers to 3 years permit to reside on the island.
On March 18 Aruba celebrates its National Day.
In 1976, Aruba presented its National Anthem (Aruba Dushi Tera) and Flag.
The origins of the population and location of the island give Aruba a mixed culture.
Christmas and New Year are celebrated with the typical music and songs of gaitas for Christmas and the Dande for New Year, and the "ayaca", the "ponchi crema" and "ham", and other typical foods and drinks.
Millions of dollars worth of fireworks are burnt at midnight on New Year's.
On January 25, Betico's Croes birthday is celebrated.
The holiday of Carnival is also an important one in Aruba, as it is in many Caribbean and Latin American countries, and, like Mardi Gras, that goes on for weeks.
Its celebration in Aruba started, around the 1950's, influenced by the inhabitants from the nearby islands (Venezuela, St Vincent, Trinidad, Barbados and Amquilla) who came to work for the Oil refinery.
Over the years the Carnival Celebration has changed and now starts from the beginning of January till the Tuesday before Ash Wednesday with a large parade on the last Sunday of the festivities (Sunday before Ash Wednesday).
In June there is the celebration of the "Dia di San Juan", with the song of "Dera Gai".
Tourism from the United States has recently also increased the visibility of American culture on the island, with such celebrations as Halloween and Thanksgiving Day in November.
Religion also has its influences; the days of Ascension and Good Friday are also two holidays on the island.
According to the "Bureau Burgelijke Stand en Bevolkingsregister" (BBSB), as of 2005 there are ninety-two different nationalities living on the island.
Language can be seen as an important part of island culture in Aruba.
The cultural mixture has given rise to a linguistic mixture known as Papiamento, the predominant language on Aruba.
The two official languages are the Dutch language and Papiamento.
Papiamento is a language that has been evolving through the centuries and absorbed many words from other languages like Spanish, Dutch, English, African dialects, and Portuguese.
However, like many islands in the region, Spanish is also often spoken.
English has historical connections (with the British Empire) and is known by many; English usage has also grown due to tourism.
Other common languages spoken based on the size of their community are Portuguese, Chinese, German and French.
The latter is offered in high school and college, since a high percentage of Aruban students continue their studies in Europe.
In recent years, the government of Aruba has shown an increased interest in acknowledging the cultural and historical importance of its native language.
Although spoken Papiamento is fairly similar among the several Papiamento-speaking islands, there is a big difference in written Papiamento.
The orthography differs per island and even per group of people.
The oldest government official statement written in Papiamento dates from 1803.
Aruba also has 18 Radio Stations (2 AM and 16 FM) and three local Television stations (Tele-Aruba, Aruba Broadcast Company and Star Television).
Aruba's Queen Beatrix International Airport is located near Oranjestad.
It also connects Aruba with Canada and South America, with daily flights to the international airports of Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Brazil, Spain, England and most of Europe through the Schiphol Airport in the Netherlands.
According to the Aruba Airport Authority, in 2005 almost 1.7 millions travelers used the airport, of which 61% were Americans.
Electricity is supplied at a 60-Hertz frequency, and at 127 and 220 volts.
Consumption of electricity has increased steadily since 1986 from 219,000 MWh to 759,336 MWh in 2005.
The "Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union", commonly known as the "Articles of Confederation", was the first governing document, or United States of America.
The final draft was written in the summer of 1777 and adopted by the Second Continental Congress on November 15, 1777 in York, Pennsylvania after a year of debate.
The political push for the colonies to increase cooperation began in the French and Indian Wars in the mid 1750s.
The opening of the American Revolutionary War in 1775 induced the various states to cooperate in seceding from the British Empire.
The Second Continental Congress starting 1775 acted as the confederation organ that ran the war.
Congress presented the Articles for enactment by the states in 1777, while prosecuting the American Revolutionary war against the Kingdom of Great Britain.
The document could not become officially effective until it was ratified by all of the thirteen colonies.
The first state to ratify was Delaware on February 5, 1778.
The process dragged on for several years, stalled by the refusal of some states to rescind their claims to land in the West.
Maryland was the last holdout; it refused to go along until Virginia and New York agreed to cede their claims in the Ohio River valley.
A little over three years passed before Maryland's ratification on March 1, 1781.
Even though the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution were established by many of the same people, the two documents were very different.
The original five-paged Articles contained thirteen articles, a conclusion, and a signatory section.
The following list contains short summaries of each of the thirteen articles.
Congress of the Confederation (United States in Congress Assembled) to each state, which was entitled to a delegation of between two and seven members.
Members of Congress were appointed by state legislatures; individuals could not serve more than three out of any six years.
No states may have navies or standing armies, or engage in war, without permission of Congress (although the state militias are encouraged).
United States will be paid by funds raised by state legislatures, and apportioned to the states based on the real property values of each.
Congress to serve as a final court for disputes between states.
Committee of the States to be a government when Congress is not in session.
Canada, if it applies for membership.
Confederation accepts war debt incurred by Congress before the Articles.
Still at war with the Kingdom of Great Britain, the colonists were reluctant to establish another powerful national government.
Jealously guarding their new independence, members of the Continental Congress created a loosely-structured unicameral legislature that protected the liberty of the individual states at the expense of the confederation.
While calling on Congress to regulate military and monetary affairs, for example, the Articles of Confederation provided no mechanism to ensure states complied with requests for troops or revenue.
At times, this left the military in a precarious position, as George Washington wrote in a 1781 letter to the governor of Massachusetts, John Hancock.
Peace Establishment, nor am I able to say when they will.
The Articles supported the Congressional direction of the Continental Army, and allowed the 13 states to present a unified front when dealing with the European powers.
But as a tool to build a centralized war-making government, they were largely a failure.
Under the articles Congress could make decisions, but had no power to enforce them.
There was a requirement for unanimous approval before any modifications could be made to the Articles.
Congress was denied the power of taxation: it could only request money from the states.
The states did not generally comply with the requests in full, leaving the confederation chronically short of funds.
The states and the national congress had both incurred debts during the war, and how to pay the debts became a major issue.
Some states paid off their debts; however, the centralizers favored federal assumption of states' debts.
Nevertheless, the western land claims and cleared the way for the entry of new states.
The Second Continental Congress approved the Articles for distribution to the states on President and Secretary to the Congress.
They ordered a final copy prepared (the one in the National Archives), and that delegates should inform the secretary of their authority for ratification.
On Georgia also didn't sign that day, since their delegations were absent.
After the first signing, some delegates signed at the next meeting they attended.
For example, John Wentworth of New Hampshire added his name on August 8.
Georgia signed on July 24, New Jersey on November 26, and Delaware on February 12 1779.
Many participants in the original debates were no longer delegates, and some of the signers had only recently arrived.
The "Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union" were signed by a group of men who were never present in the Congress at the same time.
The only person to sign all four great state papers of the United States: the Articles of Association, the United States Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.
One of only 2 people to sign three of the great state papers of the United States: the United States Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.
One of only 4 people to sign both the Articles of Confederation and the United States Constitution.
The following list is of those who led the executive, as is the President of the United States under the Constitution.
In May 1786, Congress power over foreign and domestic commerce, and providing means for Congress to collect money from state treasuries.
Unanimous approval was necessary to make the alterations, however, and Congress failed to reach a consensus.
In September, five states assembled in the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia were only authorized to amend the Articles, the representatives held secret, closed-door sessions and wrote a new constitution.
The new Constitution gave much more power to the central government, but characterization of the result is disputed.
According to their own terms for modification (Article XIII), the Articles would still have been in effect until 1790, the year in which the last of the 13 states ratified the new Constitution.
Historians have given many reasons for the perceived need to replace the articles in 1787.
Jillson and Wilson (1994) point to the financial weakness as well as the norms, rules and institutional structures of the Congress, and the propensity to divide along sectional lines.
Rakove (1988) identifies several factors that explain the collapse of the Confederation.
The lack of compulsory direct taxation power was objectionable to those wanting a strong centralized state or expecting to benefit from such power.
It could not collect customs after the war because tariffs were vetoed by Rhode Island.
When the war ended in 1783, certain special interests had incentives to create a new "merchant state," much like the British state people had rebelled against.
In particular, holders of war scrip and land speculators wanted a central government to pay off scrip at face value and to legalize western land holdings with disputed claims.
I present this scentence as an example.
My question is How?
What is the point of this scentence if there is no explanation of HOW Kennewick man is an example etc.
It is pointless otherwise.
Unfortunatley, the article is full of these types of errors.
The article text has not been changed in any way; Some of these suggestions may be wrong, some may be right.
I see that archaeology is listed as one of the hundred-odd articles that the targets for Wiki 1.0 validation.
Culture is the only article they have edited so far and they are looking for Harvard-style references, style guide conventions, images, npov, decently-written text etc.
It won't be easy but the more sub-editing we can do ourselves then less they will have to do and the chances of any howlers being accidentally created are also lower.
I was recently asked how one could become a "forensic archaeologist" and couldn't quite understand the concept.
The term "forensic" (something to do with the court system, law, current criminal investigations) and "archaeology" (something to do with the past) didn't seem to jive well.
Well, I did a bit of search and apparently UCL offers a masters course in "forensic archaeological science" and I even found a definition on one of the websites.
I changed the first sentence of the last paragraph in the CRM section.
I flagged the descendent peoples section as NPOV because.
I think it is.
Statments such as "American archaeologists have paid them little heed," "this mistrust is well-founded," "carting away any artefacts and human remains," and "adding insult to injury" display a POV in favor of the local peoples making the complaints.
The first line in the "importance and applicability" section also bothers me a bit -- that's a pretty hefty claim, and strikes me as slightly POV; some more detail and/or an attribution would be a good idea.
Also, the line about archaeology being described as "a craft that uses the sciences to illuminate the humanities" should probably be attributed to someone.
Can we remove this sentence?
I don't like it because its redundant given the sentence that precedes it.
This section isn't particularly helpful because the first paragraph doesn't discuss goals and the second refers to 'three theories' of research, but doesn't expand on it.
In general, what is prioritised is the understanding of culture through its symbolic and ideological structures with an emphasis on power, human agency and phenomenology.
Can we thrash this out further here?
I have finally been able to view the earliest text.
I did some wiki-excavation of this article, because we are reviewing all articles in Version 0.5 that have seen their assessment go down (in this case GA to B).
I notice in the opening paragraph it states that archaeology is a 'science'.
I think this should be reflected in the opening.
I am going to be bold and change it to 'academic discipline' to be more neutral.
If anyone has any problems with this I'm open to discussion.
Vsmith reverted my edit, because the term 'academic discipline' was disliked.
If a better term can be decided, I'll go for it, but I still think 'Science' is the wrong term to have (at least in the opening paragraph).
In my opinion, 'academic discipline' is the most accurate description, for whilst excavation, lab-based research etc are all part of Archaeology, the subject itself is grounded in the traditions of publication and peer review.
Well it is a theory, but the problem is that it is pretty much impossible to verify, because it is attempting to read the intentions and spiritual beliefs of humans that have been dead for thousands of years.
Processualists would argue that as it cannot be meaningfully verified it should be ignored, or at most be an interpretational footnote in a more scientific work.
The Post-Processualists would argue that even though it cannot be verified, such theories are important in the study of human history, through such methods as phenomenology.
I added a link to the CRM/Heritage Management section to show that the latter is an academically accepted name in Britain (displayed as the title of a module of study).
The link comes from SoGAER (School of Geography, Archaeology and Earth Resources) at the University of Exeter.
Note there is also a basic reading list at the bottom that may be further use in the article, if they can be got hold of.
Koestler studied science and psychology at the University of Vienna, where he became President of a Zionist student fraternity.
He joined the Black American writer Langston Hughes.
Koestler returned to anti-Communist intellectuals in Berlin that led to the founding of the Congress for Cultural Freedom.
He was made a Commander in the Order of the British Empire in the 1970s.
In 1983, suffering from Parkinson's disease and leukemia, Koestler committed joint suicide with his third wife, Cynthia, by taking an overdose of drugs.
He had long been an advocate of voluntary euthanasia, and in 1981 had become vice president of EXIT (now the United Kingdom's Voluntary Euthanasia Society).
His will endowed the chair of parapsychology at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.
During the extremist tendencies in the region.
Koestler and a minority of writers and public figures believed that if they sufficiently described the horrors being committed in Europe in news media and public meetings, it would spur the West to action.
Despite their efforts, these protests often fell on deaf ears.
In addition to his mother tongue Palestine (pre-1948 Israel), the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and France, all by 40 years of age.
Though he wrote the bulk of his later work in English, Koestler wrote his best-known novels in three different languages: "The Gladiators" in Hungarian, "Darkness at Noon" in German (although the original is now lost), and "Arrival and Departure" in English.
Questions have also been raised by his terminally ill at the time, she was apparently healthy, leading some to claim he persuaded her to take her own life.
Just as "Darkness at Noon" was selling well during the Cold War of the 1940s and '50s, Koestler announced his retirement from politics.
Much of what he wrote thereafter revealed a multidisciplinary thinker whose work anticipated a number of trends by many years.
He was among the first to experiment with LSD (in a laboratory).
He also wrote about Japanese and Indian mysticism in "The Lotus and the Robot" (1960).
This originality resulted in an uneven set of ideas and conclusions.
Koestler was involved in a number of political causes during his life, from Zionism and communism to anti-communism, voluntary euthanasia, and campaigns against capital punishment, particularly hanging.
He was also an early advocate of nuclear disarmament.
In 1943 he met Jan Karski.
Until the bestseller status of "Darkness at Noon" made him financially comfortable, Koestler often earned his living as a journalist and foreign correspondent, trading on his ability to write quickly in several languages, and to acquire with facility a working knowledge of a new language.
In the early 1930s, he worked for the Ullstein publishing group in Berlin and did freelance writing for the French press.
While covering the Encounter, one of the most influential periodicals of the Cold War period.
During the last 30 years of his life, Koestler wrote extensively on science and scientific practice.
The Lamarckian inheritance.
Holons in a Holarchy have the dual tendency of integration and development and out of balance they tend to a pathology.
Although a lifelong atheist, Koestler's ancestry was Jewish.
His biographer David Cesarani claimed that Koestler deliberately disowned his Jewish ancestry.
When Koestler resided in Palestine during the 1920s, he lived on a kibbutz.
This experience provided background for his novel "Thieves in the Night".
He supported the statehood of Israel, but remarked that the Roman.
Koestler stated that part of his intent in writing "The Thirteenth Tribe" was to defuse anti-Semitism by undermining the identification of European Jews with Biblical Jews, with the hope of rendering anti-Semitic epithets such as "Christ killer" inapplicable.
Ironically, Koestler's thesis that Ashkenazi Jews are not Semitic has become an important claim of many anti-Semitic groups.
Recent genetic research studies have contradicted the main thesis of "The Thirteenth Tribe".
In "Return Trip to Nirvana", published in the "Sunday Telegraph" in 1967, Koestler wrote about the drug culture and his own experiences with hallucinogens.
In his younger days, the singer theory of the same name.
Koestler's will also left money for the Edinburgh.
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between the Americas to the west, and Eurasia and Africa to the east.
A component of the all-encompassing World Ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean (which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic), to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south.
The Atlantic Ocean is bounded on the west by North and South America.
In the north and northeast, it is separated from the Arctic Ocean by the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, Greenland, Iceland, Jan Mayen, Svalbard, and mainland Europe.
It connects to the Arctic Ocean through the Denmark Strait, Greenland Sea, Norwegian Sea, and Barents Sea.
To the east, the boundaries of the ocean proper are Europe, the Strait of Gibraltar (where it connects with the Mediterranean Sea, one of its marginal seas, and, in turn, the Black Sea), and Africa.
Covering approximately 20% of Earth's surface, the Atlantic Ocean is second only to the Pacific in size.
The average depths of the Atlantic, with its adjacent seas, is 3,338 meters (10,932 ft); without them it is 3,926 meters (12,881 ft).
The greatest depth, 8,605 meters (28,232 ft), is in the Puerto Rico Trench.
The width of the Atlantic varies from 2,848 kilometers (1,770 mi) between Brazil and Liberia to about 4,830 kilometers (3,000 mi) between the United States and northern Africa.
The principal feature of the bathymetry (bottomtopography) of the Atlantic Ocean is a submarine mountain range called the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.
The Mid-Atlantic Ridge separates the Atlantic Ocean into two large Blake, Guiana, North American, Cape Verde, and Canaries basins in the North Atlantic.
The largest South Atlantic basins are the Angola, Cape, Argentina, and Brazil basins.
The deep ocean floor is thought to be fairly flat, although numerous seamounts and some guyots exist.
Several deeps or trenches are also found on the ocean floor.
The Puerto Rico Trench, in the North Atlantic, is the deepest.
The Laurentian Abyss is found off the eastern coast of Canada.
In the South Atlantic, the South Sandwich Trench reaches a depth of 8,428 metres (27,651 ft).
A third major trench, the Romanche Trench, is located near the equator and reaches a depth of about 7,454 meters (24,455 ft).
The shelves along the margins of the continents constitute about 11% of the bottom topography.
Several deep channels cut across the continental rise.
Ocean Globigerina, pteropod, and siliceous oozes.
Covering most of the ocean floor and ranging in thickness from 60 to 3,300 meters (200 to 11,000 ft), they are thickest in the convergence belts and in the zones of upwelling.
Authigenic deposits consist of such materials as manganese nodules.
They occur where sedimentation proceeds slowly or where currents sort the deposits.
The Atlantic Ocean consists of four major water masses.
The North and South Atlantic central waters constitute the surface waters.
The sub-Antarctic intermediate water extends to depths of 1,000 meters (3,300 ft).
The North Atlantic Deep Water reaches depths of as much as 4,000 meters (13,200 ft).
The Antarctic Bottom Water occupies ocean basins at depths greater than 4,000 meters (13,200 ft).
Within the North Atlantic, ocean currents isolate a large elongated body of water known as the Sargasso Sea, in which the salinity is noticeably higher than average.
The Sargasso Sea contains large amounts of seaweed and is also the spawning ground for both the European eel and the American eel.
Because of the Coriolis effect, water in the North Atlantic circulates in a clockwise direction, whereas water circulation in the South Atlantic is counter-clockwise.
The south tides in the Atlantic Ocean are semi-diurnal; that is, two high tides occur during each 24 lunar hours.
The tides are a general wave that moves from south to north.
The climate of the Atlantic Ocean and adjacent land areas is influenced by the temperatures of the surface waters and water currents as well as the winds blowing across the waters.
Because of the ocean's great capacity for retaining heat, maritime climates are more moderate and have less tendency toward extreme seasonal variations than inland climates.
Hurricanes develop in the southern part of the North Atlantic Ocean.
The average wavelength towards the North America shore about 500 m (1650 ft) out is 1000.
The Atlantic Ocean appears to be the second youngest of all four oceans, Evidence indicates that it did not exist prior to 130 million years ago, when the continents that formed from the breakup of the ancestral super continent, Hydrographic Office.
In 1865 the first successful transatlantic telegraph cable was laid by Brunell's ship the Great Eastern.
The ocean has also contributed significantly to the development and economy of the countries around it.
Besides its major transatlantic transportation and communication routes, the Atlantic offers abundant Newfoundland, the shelf area off Nova Scotia, Georges Bank off Cape Cod, the Bahama Banks, the waters around Iceland, the Irish Sea, the Dogger Bank of the North Sea, and the Falkland Banks.
Eel, lobster, and whales have also been taken in great quantities.
All these factors, taken together, tremendously enhance the Atlantic's great commercial value.
Because of the threats to the ocean environment presented by oil spills, marine debris, and the incineration of toxic wastes at sea, various international treaties exist to reduce some forms of pollution.
Tropical cyclones (hurricanes) develop anywhere from off the coast of Africa near Cape Verde to the Windward Islands and move westward into the Caribbean Sea or up the east coast of North America; hurricanes can occur from May to December but are most frequent from late July to early November.
Storms are common in the North Atlantic during northern winters, making ocean crossings more difficult and dangerous.
The surface is usually covered with sea ice in the Labrador Sea, Denmark Strait, and Baltic Sea from October to June.
There is a clockwise warm-water gyre in the northern Atlantic, and a counter-clockwise warm-water gyre in the southern Atlantic.
The ocean floor is dominated by the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, a rugged north-south centerline for the entire Atlantic basin, first discovered by the Challenger Expedition.
This was formed by the vulcanism that also formed the floor of the Atlantic, and the islands rising from it.
Islands in the Atlantic Ocean include Diego Alverez (Also known as Gough Island), Falkland Islands, Tierra del Fuego, South Georgia Island, South Sandwich Islands, and Bouvet Island.
The Bermuda Triangle is popularly believed to be the site of numerous aviation and shipping incidents because of unexplained and supposedly mysterious causes, but coast guard records do not support this belief.
Endangered marine species include the whales.
Drift net fishing is killing dolphins, albatrosses and other seabirds (petrels, auks), hastening the decline of fish stocks and contributing to international disputes.
There is municipal sludge pollution off the eastern United States, southern Brazil, and eastern Argentina; oil pollution in the Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; and industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in the Baltic Sea, North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea.
In 2005, there was some concern that the currents warming northern Europe were slowing down, but no scientific consensus was formed based on the reported evidence.
On June 7, 2006, Florida's wildlife commission voted to take the manatee off of the state's endangered species list.
Some environmentalists worry that this could erode safeguards for the popular sea creature.
Marine pollution is a generic term for the harmful entry into the ocean of chemicals or particles.
The biggest culprit are rivers that empty into the Ocean, and with it the many chemicals used as dead zone.
Schopenhauer attempted to make his career as an academic by correcting and expanding Immanuel Kant's philosophy concerning the way in which we experience the world.
In 1831, a cholera epidemic broke out in Berlin and both Hegel and Schopenhauer fled; but Hegel returned prematurely, caught the infection, and died a few days later.
Schopenhauer moved south, and settled permanently in Frankfurt in 1833.
There he remained for the next twenty-seven years, living alone except for a succession of pet poodles named Atma and Butz.
While in Berlin, Schopenhauer was named as a defendant in an action at law initiated by a woman named Caroline Marquet.
She asked for damages, alleging that Schopenhauer had pushed her.
Knowing that he was a man of some means and that he disliked noise, she deliberately annoyed him by raising her voice while standing right outside his door.
Marquet alleged that the philosopher had assaulted and battered her after she refused to leave his doorway.
Her companion testified that she saw Marquet prostrate outside of his apartment.
Because Marquet won the lawsuit, he made payments to her for the next twenty years.
When she died, he wrote on a copy of her death certificate, "Obit anus, abit onus" (The old woman dies, the burden is lifted).
Schopenhauer had a robust constitution, but in 1860 his health began to deteriorate.
He died, sitting in his armchair, of heart failure on September 21 of that year at the age of 72.
Schopenhauer called himself a pessimistic philosophy that gained importance and support after the failure of the German and Austrian revolutions of 1848.
Schopenhauer's starting point was Will.
A key aspect of Schopenhauer's thought is the investigation of what makes man less than reasonable.
For Schopenhauer, the suffering or pain of the world into a more vivid consciousness.
Logically speaking then, the more intellectually-inclined person suffers most.
Aesthetic contemplation for Schopenhauer translates into an immediate objectification of the will.
He employs a progressive history of mankind.
Other notable ideas pertaining to Schopenhauer's metaphysics entail the notion of how art is conceived.
Schopenhauer argued that art was a spontaneous, pre-determined idea which the artist has in mind before even attempting to create.
Art, therefore, placed man above science and ultimately nature since it effectively goes beyond the realm of sufficient reason.
Science, for Schopenhauer, shall be relegated to the boundaries of reason and, thus, the genius is precluded from entering its territory.
Moreover, philosophy is not necessarily a pursuit of wisdom but, rather, it can be viewed as a means for interpreting the personal experiences of one's own life.
Schopenhauer maintained that desire produces suffering and, thus, one ought to be wary of the torturous effects of hedonism.
This wild and powerful drive to reproduce, however, caused suffering or pain in the world.
For Schopenhauer, one way to escape the suffering inherent in a world of Will was through art.
Schopenhauer was perhaps even more influential in his treatment of man's psychology than he was in the realm of philosophy.
He gave a name to a force within man which he felt had invariably precedence over reason: the Will to Live (Wille zum Leben), defined as an inherent drive within human beings, and indeed all creatures, to stay alive and to reproduce.
These ideas foreshadowed and laid the groundwork for Freud's concepts of the libido and the unconscious mind.
In occasional political comments in his "Parerga and Paralipomena" and "Manuscript Remains", Schopenhauer described himself as a proponent of limited government.
Hindus and Egyptians, are found exclusively among the white races; and even with many dark peoples, the ruling caste or race is fairer in colour than the rest and has, therefore, evidently immigrated, for example, the Brahmans, the Incas, and the rulers of the South Sea Islands.
In 1821 he fell in love with 19-year old opera singer Caroline Richter, called Medon, and had a relationship with her for several years.
Schopenhauer had generally liberal views on other social issues: he was strongly against slaves.
Schopenhauer held a high opinion of one woman, Madame de Guyon, whose writings and biography he recommended.
Schopenhauer believed that a person inherited level of intellect through one's mother and personal character through one's father.
Schopenhauer was also one of the first philosophers since the days of Greek philosophy to address the subject of male homosexuality.
In the third, expanded edition of "The World as Will and Representation" (1856), Schopenhauer added an appendix to his chapter on the "Metaphysics of Sexual Love".
He wrote that only those who were too old or too young to reproduce strong, healthy children would resort to pederasty (Schopenhauer considered pederasty to be in itself a vice).
He also wrote that homosexuality did have the benefit of preventing ill-begotten children.
He summarised the influence of the Upanishads thusly: 'It has been the solace of my life, it will be the solace of my death!
Schopenhauer's second major departure from Kant's epistemology concerns the body.
Kant's philosophy was formulated as a response to the radical philosophical skepticism of David Hume, who claimed that causality could not be observed empirically.
Schopenhauer begins by arguing that Kant's demarcation between external objects, knowable only as phenomena, and the Thing in Itself of noumenon, contains a significant omission.
There is, in fact, one physical object we know more intimately than we know any object of sense perception.
It is our own body.
We know our human bodies have boundaries and occupy space, the same way other objects known only through our named senses do.
Though we seldom think of our bodies as physical objects, we know even before reflection that it shares some of their properties.
We understand that a watermelon cannot successfully occupy the same space as an oncoming truck.
We know that if we tried to repeat the experiment with our own bodies, we would obtain similar results.
We know this even if we do not understand the physics involved.
We know that our consciousness inhabits a physical body, similar to other physical objects only known as phenomena.
Yet our consciousness is not commensurate with our body.
Most of us possess the power of voluntary motion.
We usually are not aware of the breathing of our lungs or the beating of our hearts unless somehow our attention is called to them.
Our ability to control either is limited.
Our kidneys command our attention on their schedule rather than one we choose.
Few of us have any idea what our livers are doing right now, though this organ is as needful as lungs, heart, or kidneys.
The conscious mind is the servant, not the master, of these and other organs.
These organs have an agenda which the conscious mind did not choose, and over which it has limited power.
When Schopenhauer identifies the "noumenon" with the desires, needs, and impulses in us that we name "Will," what he is saying is that we participate in the reality of an otherwise unachievable world outside the mind through will.
Schopenhauer expressed his dislike for the philosophy of his contemporary Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel many times in his published works.
In his "Foreword to the first edition" of his work "Die beiden Grundprobleme der Ethik", Schopenhauer suggested that he had shown Hegel to have fallen prey to the "Post hoc ergo propter hoc" fallacy.
Schopenhauer thought that Hegel used deliberately impressive but ultimately vacuous verbiage.
Schopenhauer's philosophy is similar to Buddhism in many ways.
Following the Eightfold Path leads to Nirvana.
Schopenhauer's philosophy seems similar to the first two of Buddhism's four truths in that it associates will with desire, appetite, and craving.
However, instead of the fourth truth, Schopenhauer describes a twofold path.
Denial of the will is attained by either: # Personal experience of an extremely great suffering that leads to loss of the will to live; or # Knowledge of the essential nature of life in the world through observation of the suffering of other people.
Cabinda has a border with the Republic of the Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
A former Portuguese colony, it has considerable natural resources, most notably petroleum and diamonds.
The country is nominally a democracy.
The earliest people of the area were Dutch occupied Luanda from 1641 to 1648, where they allied with local peoples to consolidate their colonial rule against the remaining Portuguese resistance.
In 1648, Portugal retook Luanda and initiated a process of reconquest of lost territories, which restored the pre-occupation possessions of Portugal by 1650.
Treaties regulated relations with Congo in 1649 and Njinga's Kingdom of Matamba and Ndongo in 1656.
The conquest of Pungo Andongo in 1671 was the last great Portuguese expansion, as attempts to invade Congo in 1670 and Matamba in 1681 failed.
Portugal expanded its territory behind the colony of Benguela in the eighteenth century, and began the attempt to occupy other regions in the mid-nineteenth century.
The process resulted in few gains until the 1880s.
Full Portuguese administrative control of the interior didn't occur until the beginning of the twentieth century.
In 1951, the colony was designated as an overseas province, called Portuguese West Africa.
Portugal had a presence in Angola for nearly five hundred years, and the population's initial reaction to calls for independence was mixed.
Leftist military officers overthrew the 15.
The current government has announced an intention to hold elections in 2009.
These elections would be the first since 1992 and would serve to elect both a new president and a new National Assembly.
Angola is divided into 163 municipalities.
The Angolan Armed Forces (FAA) is headed by a Chief of Staff who reports to the Minister of Defense.
The National Police departments are: Public Order, Criminal Investigation, Traffic and Transport, Investigation and Inspection of Economic Activities, Taxation and Frontier Supervision, Riot Police and the Rapid Intervention Police.
The National Police are in the process of standing up an air wing, which will provide helicopter support for police operations.
The National Police are also developing their criminal investigation and forensic capabilities.
The National Police has an estimated 6,000 patrol officers, 2,500 Taxation and Frontier Supervision officers, 182 criminal investigators and 100 financial crimes detectives and 90 Economic Activity Inspectors.
The National Police have implemented a modernization and development plan to increase the capabilities and efficiency of the total force.
In addition to administrative reorganization; modernization projects include procurement of new vehicles, aircraft and equipment, construction of new police stations and forensic laboratories, restructured training programs and the replacement of AKM rifles with 9 mm UZIs for police officers in urban areas.
Angola is bordered by Cabinda also borders the Republic of the Congo to the north.
Angola's capital, Luanda, lies on the Atlantic coast in the north-west of the country.
Growth is almost entirely driven by rising oil production which surpassed 1.4 million barrels per day in late-2005 and which is expected to grow to 2 million barrels per day by 2007.
Control of the oil industry is consolidated in Sonangol Group, a conglomerate which is owned by the Angolan government.
In December 2006, Angola was admitted as a member of OPEC.
The economy grew 18% in 2005; growth is expected to reach 26% in 2006 and stay above 10% for the rest of the decade.
The security brought about by the 2002 peace settlement has led to the resettlement of 4 million displaced persons, thus resulting in large-scale increases in agriculture production.
The country has developed its economy since political stability arose in 2002.
However, it faces huge social and economic problems as a result of an almost continual state of conflict since 1961, although the highest level of destruction and socio-economic damage was reached after the 1975 independence, during the long years of civil war.
Rapidly rising production and revenues from the oil sector have been the main driving forces behind the improvements in overall economic activity - nevertheless, poverty remains widespread.
Anti-corruption watchdog Transparency International rated Angola one of the 10 most corrupt countries in the world in 2005.
Once synonymous to slavery, outlaws and violence, Capoeira is now well known all over the world as an art form, and has fascinated thousands.
Capoeira is divided into two parts: Capoeira Regional and Capoeira Angola.
Capoeira Regional is a modern and popular form of capoeira.
Capoeira Angola is the original form, created in Brazil by African slaves.
The coast is for the most part flat, with occasional low cliffs and bluffs of red Okavango, drain to Lake Ngami.
The central plateau consists of ancient Tertiary and Cretaceous ages, the latter rocks resting on a reddish sandstone of older date.
The Cretaceous rocks of the Dombe Grande region (near Benguella) are of Albian age and belong to the "Acanthoceras mamillari" zone.
The beds containing "Schloenbachia inflata" are referable to the Gault.
Rocks of Tertiary age are met with at Dombe Grande, Mossamedes and near Loanda.
The sandstones with gypsum, copper and sulfur of Dombe are doubtfully considered to be of Triassic age.
Recent eruptive rocks, mainly basalts, form a line of hills almost bare of vegetation between Benguella and Mossamedes.
Nepheline basalts and liparites occur at Dombe Grande.
The presence of gum copal in considerable quantities in the superficial rocks is characteristic of certain regions.
Like the rest of tropical Africa, Angola experiences distinct, alternating rainy and dry seasons.
It is semiarid in South and along coast to Luanda; North has cool, dry season (May to October) and hot, rainy season (November to April).
In the interior, above 3300 ft.
The plateau climate is healthy and invigorating.
Angola has three principal natural regions: the coastal lowland, characterized by low plains and terraces; hills and mountains, rising inland from the coast into a great escarpment; and an area of high plains, called the high plateau (planalto), which extends eastward from the escarpment.
The coastal lowland rises from the sea in a series of low terraces.
This region varies in width from about 25 kilometers near Benguela to more than 150 kilometers in the Cuanza River Valley just south of Angola's capital, Luanda, and is markedly different from Angola's highland mass.
The Atlantic Ocean's cold, northwardflowing Benguela Current substantially reduces precipitation along the coast, making the region relatively arid or nearly so south of Benguela (where it forms the northern extension of the Namib Desert), and quite dry even in its northern reaches.
Even where, as around Luanda, the average annual rainfall may be as much as fifty centimeters, it is not uncommon for the rains to fail.
Given this pattern of precipitation, the far south is marked by sand dunes, which give way to dry scrub along the middle coast.
Portions of the northern coastal plain are covered by thick brush.
The belt of hills and mountains parallels the coast at distances ranging from 20 kilometers to 100 kilometers inland.
The Cuanza River divides the zone into two parts.
The northern part rises gradually from the coastal zone to an average elevation of 500 meters, with crests as high as 1,000 meters to 1,800 meters.
South of the Cuanza River, the hills rise sharply from the coastal lowlands and form a high escarpment, extending from a point east of Luanda and running south through Namibia.
The escarpment reaches 2,400 meters at its highest point, southeast of the town of Sumbe, and is steepest in the far south in the Serra da Chela mountain range.
The high plateau lies to the east of the hills and mountains and dominates Angola's terrain.
Most of the country's many rivers originate in central Angola, but their patterns of flow are diverse and their ultimate outlets varied.
A number of rivers flow in a more or less westerly course to the Atlantic Ocean, providing water for irrigation in the dry coastal strip and the potential for hydroelectric power, only some of which had been realized by 1988.
Two of Angola's most important rivers, the Cuanza and the Cunene, take a more indirect route to the Atlantic, the Cuanza flowing north and the Cunene flowing south before turning west.
The Cuanza is the only river wholly within Angola that is navigable--for nearly 200 kilometers from its mouth- -by boats of commercially or militarily significant size.
The Congo River, whose mouth and western end form a small portion of Angola's northern border with Zaire, is also navigable.
North of the Lunda Divide a number of important tributaries of the Congo River flow north to join it, draining Angola's northeast quadrant.
South of the divide some rivers flow into the Zambezi River and thence to the Indian Ocean, others to the Okavango River (as the Cubango River is called along the border with Namibia and in Botswana) and thence to the Okavango Swamp in Botswana.
The tributaries of the Cubango River and several of the southern rivers flowing to the Atlantic are seasonal, completely dry much of the year.
Both barbel, bream and African yellow fish.
This is a list of the "extreme points of Angola", the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.
It has been the most popular language to learn.
Christianity is officially the most claimed religion of Angola.
The largest denomination of this is Roman Catholicism, but there are also followers of Protestantism, and African Initiated Churches most of them are Bantu speakers and some Portuguese.
As of 2006, one out of 221 people were Jehovah's Witnesses.
Blacks from Mali, Nigeria, and Senegal are mostly Muslims.
The rest of Angolans retain all or in part African Traditional Religion following different ethnic faiths.
There are 12,263,596 Angolan citizens as of July 2007.
The population is predominately quite young, with 43.7% between the ages of less than one and 14 years old, 2,678,185 males and 2,625,933 females.
The median age for males and females is 18 years old.
The population is growing by 2.184% annually.
There are 44.51 births and 24.81 deaths per 1,000 citizens.
The net migration rate is 2.14 migrants per 1,000 citizens.
The fertility rate of Angola is 6.27 children born per woman as of 2006.
The infant mortality rate is 184.44 deaths for every 1,000 live births with 196.55 deaths for males and 171.72 deaths for females for every 1,000 live births.
Life expectancy at birth is 37.63 years; 36.73 years for males and 38.57 years for females.
There are 1.05 males for every female with 1.02 males to female for those under the age of 15, 1.03 males for the 15 to 64 age bracket, 0.8 males for the 65 years and over bracket and 1.02 males to female for the total population as of 2006.
The adult prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS infection is 3.9% as of 2003.
There are 240,000 citizens living with AIDS and 21,000 die annually.
The risk of contracting disease is very high.
There are food and waterborne diseases, bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, and typhoid fever; vectorborne diseases, malaria, African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness); respiratory disease: meningococcal meningitis, and schistosomiasis, a water contact disease, as of 2005.
Angola is a majority Christian country, with 53% of citizens professing the religion.
Most Angolan Christians are Roman Catholic, 38%, or Protestant, 15%.
Angolans practice indigenous beliefs, and .2% are Buddhist as of 2006.
Currently, political power is concentrated in the Presidency.
The executive branch of the government is composed of the President, the Prime Minister (currently Fernando da Piedade Dias dos Santos) and Council of Ministers.
The Council of Ministers, composed of all government ministers and vice ministers, meets regularly to discuss policy issues.
Governors of the 18 provinces are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the president.
The Constitutional Law of 1992 establishes the broad outlines of government structure and delineates the rights and duties of citizens.
The legal system is based on Portuguese and customary law but is weak and fragmented.
Courts operate in only 12 of more than 140 municipalities.
A Supreme Court serves as the appellate tribunal; a Constitutional Court with powers of judicial review has never been constituted despite statutory authorization.
The 26-year long civil war has ravaged the country's political and social institutions.
The UN estimates of 1.8 million internally displaced persons (IDPs), while generally the accepted figure for war-affected people is 4 million.
Daily conditions of life throughout the country and specifically Luanda (population approximately 4 million) mirror the collapse of administrative infrastructure as well as many social institutions.
The ongoing grave economic situation largely prevents any government support for social institutions.
Hospitals are without medicines or basic equipment, schools are without books, and public employees often lack the basic supplies for their day-to-day work.
The president is elected for a five year term by the people.
The Council of Ministers appointed by the president.
The president has announced the government's intention to hold elections in 2009.
These elections would be the first since 1992 and would serve to elect both a new president and a new National Assembly.
The "Economy of Angola" is the fastest-growing independence in 1975 until 2002.
Despite abundant natural resources, output per capita remains among the world's lowest.
Subsistence agriculture and dependence on humanitarian food assistance sustain the large majority of the population.
Little industry exists.
The Cabinda in 1968.
The government granted operating rights for Block Zero to the Cabinda Gulf Oil Company, a subsidiary of ChevronTexaco, in 1955.
Oil production surpassed the exportation of coffee as Angola's largest export in 1973, producing 172,000 b/d in 1974.
The Angolan government created Sonangol, a state-run oil company, in 1976.
Two years later Sonangol received the rights to oil exploration and production in all of Angola.
Despite the increase in civil warfare in late 1998, the economy grew by an estimated 4% in 1999.
Angola produced over 3 Mct of diamonds in 2003.
In 2004 China's Eximbank approved a $2 billion line of credit to Angola to rebuild infrastructure.
Block 14 in January 2000, but production has decreased to 57,000 b/d as of 2007 due to the poor quality of the oil.
Angola joined the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries on January 1, 2007.
Cabinda Gulf Oil Company found Malange-1, an oil reservoir in Block 14, on August 9, 2007.
Despite its abundant natural resources, output per capita is among the world's lowest.
Subsistence agriculture provides the main livelihood for 85% of the population.
Oil production and the supporting activities are vital to the economy, contributing about 45% to GDP and 90% of exports.
Growth is almost entirely driven by rising oil production which surpassed 1.4 million barrels per day in late-2005 and which is expected to grow to 2 million barrels per day by 2007.
Control of the oil industry is consolidated in Sonangol Group, a conglomerate which is owned by the Angolan government.
In the last decade of the colonial period, Angola was a major African food exporter but now imports almost all its food.
Because of severe wartime conditions, including extensive planting of landmines throughout the countryside, agricultural activities have been brought to a near standstill.
Some efforts to recover have gone forward, however, notably in fisheries.
Coffee production, though a fraction of its pre-1975 level, is sufficient for domestic needs and some exports.
This is a chart of trend of nominal gross domestic product of Angola (since unification) at market prices using International Monetary Fund data; figures are in millions of units.
Exports in 2004 reached USD $10,530,764,911.
The vast majority of Angola's exports, 92% in 2004, are petroleum products.
Angolan petroleum production is second only to Nigeria in African oil production.
By 2010 production is expected to double the 2006 output level with development of deep-water offshore oil fields.
Oil sales generated USD $1.71 billion in tax revenue in 2004 and now makes up 80% of the government's budget, a 5% increase from 2003, and 45% of GDP.
Block Zero provides the majority of Angola's crude oil production with 370,000 b/d produced annually.
Total, and ENI-Agip own the rest of the block.
Angola's first producing deepwater section, Block 14, with 57,000 b/d.
The United Nations has criticized the Angolan government for using torture, rape, summary executions, arbitrary detention, and disappearances, actions which Angolan government has justified on the need to maintain oil output.
Angola is the third-largest trading partner of the United States in Sub-Saharan Africa, largely because of its petroleum exports.
The U.S. imports 7% of its oil from Angola, about three times as much as it imported from Kuwait just prior to the Gulf War in 1991.
Angola is the third largest producer of diamonds in Africa and has only explored 40% of the diamond-rich territory within the country, but has had difficulty in attracting foreign investment because of corruption, human rights violations, and diamond smuggling.
The Angolan government loses $375 million annually from diamond smuggling.
In 2003 the government began Operation Brilliant, an anti-smuggling investigation that arrested and deported 250,000 smugglers between 2003 and 2006.
Angola began mining iron in 1957, producing 1.2 million tons in 1967 and 6.2 million tons by 1971.
In the 1970s 70% of Angola's iron exports went to Western Europe or Japan.
Telephone service is limited mostly to government and business use.
The domestic system consists of a limited system of wire.
It also uses microwave radio relay and tropospheric scatter.
The major railway in Angola is the Benguela railway, severely damaged during the civil war after independence.
Travel on highways outside of towns and cities in Angola (and in some cases within) is often not best advised for those without four-by-four vehicles.
Whilst a reasonable roads infrastructure has existed within Angola, time and the war have taken their toll on the road surfaces, leaving many severely potholed, littered with broken asphalt.
In many areas drivers have established alternate tracks to avoid the worst parts of the surface, although careful attention must be paid to the presence or absence of landmine warning markers by the side of the road.
The Angolan government has contracted the restoration of many of the country's roads, though.
Many companies are coming into the country from China and surrounding nations to help improve road surfaces.
The road between Lubango and Namibe, for example, was completed recently with funding from the European Union, and is comparable to many European main routes.
Progress to complete the road infrastructure is likely to take some decades, but substantial efforts are already being made in the right directions.
A small number of FAA personnel are stationed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Kinshasa) and the Republic of the Congo (Brazzaville).
The "foreign relations of Angola" are based on Angola's strong support of U.S. foreign policy as the Angolan economy is dependent on U.S. foreign aid.
From 1975 to 1989, Western countries, cultivating links with other Portuguese-speaking countries, and asserting its own national interests in Central Africa through military and diplomatic intervention.
In 1993, it established formal diplomatic relations with the United States.
It has entered the Southern African Development Community as a vehicle for improving ties with its largely Anglophone neighbors to the south.
Zimbabwe and Namibia joined Angola in its military intervention in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where Angolan troops remain in support of the Joseph Kabila government.
It also has intervened in the Republic of the Congo (Brazzaville) to support the existing government in that country.
Since 1998, Angola has successfully worked with the UN Security Council to impose and carry out sanctions on UNITA.
More recently, it has extended those efforts to controls on conflict diamonds, the primary source of revenue for UNITA.
At the same time, Angola has promoted the revival of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries (CPLP) as a forum for cultural exchange and expanding ties with Portugal and Brazil in particular.
Angola established relations with the People's Republic of China in 1983.
Relations between the 1992 elections.
Johnston was born in brevet second lieutenant in the 2nd U.S. Infantry.
He was assigned to posts in New York and Missouri and served in the Black Hawk War in 1832 as chief of staff to General Henry Atkinson.
In 1829 he married Henrietta Preston.
He resigned his commission in 1834 to return to Kentucky to care for his dying wife, who succumbed two years later to tuberculosis.
They had one son, Col.
William Preston Johnston, who would also serve in the Confederate Army.
In April 1834, Johnston took up farming in private in the Texas Army during the Texas War of Independence against the Republic of Mexico in 1836.
One month later, Johnston was promoted to major and the position of aide-de-camp to General Sam Houston.
He was named Adjutant General as a colonel in the Republic of Texas Army on August 5, 1836.
On January 31, 1837, he became senior brigadier general in command of the Texas Army.
On Indians in northern Texas.
In February 1840, he resigned and returned to Kentucky, where he married Eliza Griffin in 1843.
They settled on a large plantation he named China Grove in Brazoria County, Texas.
Johnston returned to the Texas Army during the brevet promotion to brigadier general in 1857 for his service in Utah.
He spent 1860 in Kentucky until December 21, when he sailed for California to take command of the Department of the Pacific.
At the outbreak of the Western Department.
He raised the Army of Mississippi to defend Confederate lines from the Mississippi River to Kentucky and the Allegheny Mountains.
Although the Maj.
Don Carlos Buell captured the vital city of Nashville, Tennessee.
Beauregard was sent west to join Johnston and they organized their forces at Corinth, Mississippi, planning to ambush Grant's forces at Pittsburg Landing, Tennessee.
Johnston concentrated many of his forces from around the theater and launched a massive surprise attack against Grant at the Battle of Shiloh on April 6, 1862.
As the Confederate forces overran the Union camps, Johnston seemed to be everywhere, personally leading and rallying troops up and down the line.
It is probable that a Confederate soldier fired the fatal round.
No Union soldiers were observed to have ever gotten behind Johnston during the fatal charge, while it is known that many Confederates were firing at the Union lines while Johnston charged well in advance of his soldiers.
He was the highest-ranking casualty of the war and his death was a strong blow to the morale of the Confederacy.
The date of Johnston's death, Sunday, Buchanan Administration to be in rebellion against the United States.
At his death, it was Johnston who was similarly deemed to be in rebellion against the United States as a commanding officer in the Confederate Army, this time by the Lincoln Administration.
Johnston was buried in Austin The re-interment occurred in 1867.
Forty years later, the state appointed Elisabet Ney to design a monument and sculpture of him to be erected at his gravesite.
The United Daughters of the Confederate States of America.
The Arctic Ocean contains a major chokepoint in the southern Chukchi Sea, which provides northern access to the Pacific Ocean via the Bering Strait between North America and Russia.
The Arctic Ocean also provides the shortest marine link between the extremes of eastern and western Russia.
There are several floating research stations in the Arctic, operated by the U.S. and Russia.
The greatest inflow of water comes from the Atlantic by way of the Norwegian Current, which then flows along the Eurasian coast.
Water also enters from the Pacific via the Bering Strait.
The East Greenland Current carries the major outflow.
Ice covers most of the ocean surface year-round, causing subfreezing temperatures much of the time.
The Arctic is a major source of very cold air that inevitably moves toward the equator, meeting with warmer air in the middle latitudes and causing rain and snow.
Marine life abounds in open areas, especially the more southerly waters.
The ocean's major ports are the Russian cities of Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, Churchill, Manitoba (Canada) and Prudhoe Bay, Alaska (US).
The Arctic Ocean is encompassed by the Arctic shelves, of which the largest (actually, the largest on the Earth) is the Siberian Shelf.
For much of Western history, the geography of the North Polar regions remained largely unexplored and conjectural.
Early cartographers were unsure whether to draw the region around the Pole as land (as in world map of 1507).
The few expeditions to penetrate much beyond the Arctic Circle in this era added only small islands, such as Nova Zemlya (11th century) and Spitsbergen (1596), though since these were often surrounded by pack-ice their northern limits were not so clear.
The makers of navigational charts, more conservative than some of the more fanciful cartographers, tended to leave the region blank, with only the bits of known coastline sketched in.
This lack of knowledge of what lay north of the shifting barrier of ice gave rise to a number of conjectures.
In England and other European nations, the myth of an "Open Polar Sea" was long-lived and persistent.
Arctic exploration from 1818 to 1845.
In the United States in the 1850s and '60s, the explorers Elisha Kent Kane and Isaac Israel Hayes both claimed to have seen the outskirts of this elusive body of water.
Even quite late in the century, the eminent authority Matthew Fontaine Maury included a description of the Open Polar Sea in his textbook The Physical Geography of the Sea (1883).
Nevertheless, as all the explorers who trekked closer and closer to the pole reported, the Polar Ice Cap was ultimately quite thick, and persists year-round.
Since 1937 Soviet and Russian manned drifting ice stations extensively monitored the Arctic Ocean.
Scientific settlements were established on the drift ice and carried thousands of kilometers by ice floes.
The ocean is contained in a polar climate characterized by persistent cold and relatively narrow annual temperature ranges.
Winters are characterized by continuous darkness, cold and stable weather conditions, and clear skies; summers are characterized by continuous daylight, damp and foggy weather, and weak cyclones with rain or snow.
The temperature of the surface of the Arctic Ocean is fairly constant, near the freezing point of seawater, slightly below zero degrees Celsius.
In the winter the relatively warm ocean water exerts a moderating influence, even when covered by ice.
This is one reason why the Arctic does not experience the extremes of temperature seen on the Antarctic continent.
There is considerable seasonal variation in how much pack ice of the Arctic ice pack covers the Arctic Ocean.
Much of the ocean is also covered in snow for about 10 months of the year.
The political dead zone near the center of the sea is also at the center of a mounting dispute between the United States, Russia, Canada, Norway, and Denmark.
It is considered significant because of its potential to contain as much as or more than a quarter of the world's undiscovered oil and gas resources, the tapping of which could greatly alter the flow of the global energy market.
Endangered marine species include walruses and whales.
The area has a fragile ecosystem which is slow to change and slow to recover from disruptions or damage.
The Arctic Ocean has relatively little plant life except for photosynthesize for long periods of time and reproduce quickly.
However, the reverse is true in winter where they struggle to get enough light to survive.
Decline of summer Arctic ice from 1979-2000 to 2002-05.
The ozone layer in many years.
Reduction of the area of Arctic sea ice will have an effect on the planet's ocean current patterns.
Potentially severe changes in the Earth's climate might then ensue.
Other environmental concerns relate to the radioactive contamination of the Arctic Ocean from, for example, Russian radioactive waste dumpsites in the Kara Sea and Cold War nuclear test sites such as Novaya Zemlya.
Thus far, androids have remained within the domain of science fiction, frequently in film and television.
However, some humanoid robots now exist.
As of August 2007, a handful of android projects have been successfully completed, primarily due to competition between Japan and South Korea.
Speech Recognition & Vocal Synthesis, at the same time processing Lip Synchronization and Visual Recoginition by 90 degrees Micro CCD Cameras with Face Recognition Technology.
An independent micro chip inside her artificial brain handles Gesture Expressions, Body Coordination and Emotion Expressions.
The successor of EveR-1, EveR-2, is the world's first entertainment robot.
Her whole body is made of highly advanced synthetic jelly silicon and with 60 artificial joints in her face, neck, and lower body, she is able to demonstrate realistic facial expressions and sing, while simutanously dancing.
In South Korea, the Ministry of Information and Communication hopes to put a robot in every home by as early as 2013, strictly for the purposes of clean, decorous, non-vulgar entertainment.
Although human morphology is not necessarily the ideal form for working robots, the fascination in developing robots that can mimic it can be found historically in the assimilation of two concepts: "simulacra" (devices that exhibit likeness) and "automata" (devices that have independence).
In some fiction works, the primary difference between a robot and android is only skin-deep, with androids being made to look almost exactly like humans on the outside, but with internal mechanics exactly the same as that of robots.
In other stories, authors have defined android to indicate a wholly organic, yet artificial, creation.
Other definitions of android fall somewhere in between.
In the show "THE SAINT", Tyler is an android, or a robot with a human intellect.
Tyler spends most of the series in fights with Mary, a normal human, and eventually team up to fight against the dark evil Vincent.
The character Rock/Mega Man, from the game series of the same name, is called a Humanoid in the instructions of the first game, and a robot thereafter.
He is a member of a class of robots called Robot Masters, which have a certain degree of autonomy.
At the end of Mega Man 7, he states that he is "more than just a robot".
Mega Man's successor, Mega Man X, is specifically identified to be fully autonomous.
The bioengineered organic beings.
In the video game "Beneath a Steel Sky", genetically engineered androids similar to Blade Runner's Replicants are a central plot theme.
However, despite their organic makeup, their behavior is programmed by computer.
While C-3PO could reasonably be called an android because he is humanoid in appearance, the squat cylinder R2-D2 is at most only humanoid in behavior.
In the anime/manga "Chobits", Androids are known as "Persocoms", essentially computers in a man-made body.
The series does not go into their internal composition, but it is assumed to be artificial with a very realistic outside.
In fiction, one prominent android variation is the Bio android, which is constructed of protein based components as opposed to electronic and mechanical parts.
Bio androids are all composed of synthetic flesh, though their exact composition varies from work to work.
Biorobotics or synthetic biology are among the terms used to describe how they are made.
Judith B. (1991).
New York: New York University Press.
Joseph Henry Press.
I also vote no, in fact I feel more android sections should exist for the variations on the main theme such as nanobot (liquid metal) androids and other vartiations.
In the years since RUR was written, the word ROBOT has lost the meaning SLAVE, and now refers to a machine created to do work, and not an artificial man.
Just curious, but why doesn't Metropolis (film) get a nod in the fiction section?
As far as I know, it is the first mention of android (rather, gynoid) in film; it's pretty much where the idea came from.
It became a province on September 1, 1905.
Alberta is located in Western Canada, bounded by the provinces of British Columbia to the west and Saskatchewan to the east, Northwest Territories to the north, and by the U.S. state of Montana to the south.
Alberta is one of two provinces (the other being New Brunswick) to border only a single U.S. state.
It is also one of two provinces that are land-locked (the other being Saskatchewan).
Since Progressive Conservative.
Alberta is named after Caroline, and Mount Alberta were also named in honour of Princess Louise.
Alberta is in 49th Parallel.
With the exception of the southeastern section, the province is well watered.
Northern Alberta is mostly covered by boreal forest and has fewer frost-free days than southern Alberta, which has a semi-arid climate.
The southeastern corner of Alberta experiences greater summer heat and lower rainfall than the rest of the province.
Western Alberta is protected by the mountains, and enjoys the mild temperatures brought by winter chinook winds, while southeastern Alberta is a generally flat, dry prairie with some hills, where temperatures are most extreme.
Southern Alberta, where Calgary is located, is known for its ranching.
Much of the unforested part of Alberta is given over either to grain or to dairy farming, with ranching and grasslands predominant in the south.
The Albertan flora, and remnants from Alberta's past when dinosaurs roamed the then lush landscape.
Alberta's economy is one of the strongest in Canada, supported by the burgeoning petroleum industry and to a lesser extent, agriculture and technology.
The per capita GDP in 2006 was by far the highest of any province in Canada at C$69,789.
This was 56% higher than the national average and more than twice that of some of the Atlantic provinces.
This deviation from the national average was the largest for any province in Canadian history.
The Calgary-Edmonton Corridor is the most urbanized region in the province and one of the densest in Canada.
Measured from north to south, the region covers a distance of roughly 400 kilometres.
According to the Fraser Institute, Alberta also has very high levels of economic freedom.
Alberta is the largest producer of oil refineries provide the raw materials for a large petrochemical industry to the east of Edmonton.
The strip mining and non-conventional in situ methods to extract the bitumen from the oil sands.
Another factor determining the viability of oil extraction from the Tar Sands is the price of oil.
The oil price increases of 2004-2006 have made it more than profitable to extract this oil, which in the past would give little profit or even a loss.
With concerted effort and support from the provincial government, several high-tech industries have found their birth in Alberta, notably patents related to interactive liquid crystal display systems.
With a growing economy, Alberta has several financial institutions dealing with civil and private funds.
Alberta is the leading Hybrid canola also requires bee pollination, and some beekeepers service this need.
The vast northern oriented strand board (OSB) and plywood, and several plants in northern Alberta supply North America and the Pacific Rim nations with bleached wood pulp and newsprint.
The government of Alberta is organized as a Legislative Assembly &mdash; consists of eighty-three members.
Locally municipal governments and school boards are elected and operate separately.
Their boundaries may or may not coincide.
As Canada's head of state, Queen Elizabeth II is the head of state for the Government of Alberta.
Her duties in Alberta are carried out by Lieutenant Governor, Norman Kwong.
As is always the case in a parliamentary system of government, the Premier is a Member of the Legislative Assembly, and he draws all the members of his Cabinet from among the Members of the Legislative Assembly.
The City of Edmonton is the seat of the provincial government &mdash; the capital of Alberta.
Alberta's municipalities and school jurisdictions have their own governments which (usually) work in co-operation with the provincial government.
Alberta's elections tend to yield results which are much more conservative than those of other Canadian provinces.
As is the case with many western Canadian provinces, Alberta has had occasional surges in separatist sentiment.
Even during the 1980s, when these feelings were at their strongest, there has never been enough interest in secession to initiate any major movements or referendums.
There are a number of groups wishing to promote the independence of Alberta in some form currently active in the province.
See also: Alberta separatism.
In the right of the Conservatives, won one seat.
As with any Canadian province, the Albertan Legislature has (almost) exclusive authority to make laws respecting education.
Since 1905 the Legislature has used this capacity to continue the model of locally elected public and separate school boards which originated prior to 1905, as well as to create and/or regulate universities, colleges, technical institutions and other educational forms and institutions (public charter schools, private schools, home schooling).
There are forty-two public school jurisdictions in Alberta, and seventeen operating separate school jurisdictions.
Sixteen of the operating separate school jurisdictions have a Protestant electorate.
For many years the provincial government has funded the greater part of the cost of providing K - 12 education.
Prior to 1994 public and separate school boards in Alberta had the legislative authority to levy a local tax on property, as supplementary support for local education.
In 1994 the government of the province eliminated this right for public school boards, but not for separate school boards.
Since 1994 there has continued to be a tax on property in support of K - 12 education; the difference is that the mill rate is now set by the provincial government, the money is collected by the local municipal authority and remitted to the provincial government.
The relevant legislation requires that all the money raised by this property tax must go to the support of K - 12 education provided by school boards.
The provincial government pools the property tax funds from across the province and distributes them, according to a formula, to public and separate school jurisdictions and Francophone authorities.
Post-secondary Alberta's oldest and largest university is Edmonton's SAIT.
There is also a large and active private sector of post-secondary institutions, including DeVry University.
Students may also receive government loans and grants while attending selected private institutions.
There has been some controversy in recent years over the rising cost of post-secondary education for students (as opposed to taxpayers).
In 2005, Premier Ralph Klein made a promise that he would freeze tuition and look into ways of reducing schooling costs.
So far, no plan has been released by the government of Alberta.
Alberta has over 180,000&nbsp;km of Highway 21, east of highway 2.
Alberta has two main east-west corridors.
On a sunny spring or fall day, one of the most scenic drives is along the Icefields Parkway, which runs for 228&nbsp;km between Jasper and Lake Louise, with mountain ranges and glaciers on either side of its entire length.
Another major corridor through central Alberta is Highway 12 20 km west of Stettler.
The highway connects many of the smaller towns in central Alberta with Calgary and Edmonton, as it crosses Highway 2 just west of Red Deer.
Edmonton, Calgary, Red Deer, Medicine Hat, and Lethbridge have substantial mass transit systems.
Edmonton and Calgary also operate light rail vehicles.
Alberta is well-connected by air, with WestJet Airlines and a regional hub for Air Canada.
Calgary's airport primarily serves the Canadian prairie provinces (Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba) for connecting flights to British Columbia, eastern Canada, 15 major US centres, nine European airports, and four destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean.
Edmonton's airport acts as a hub for the Canadian north and has connections to all major Canadian airports as well as 10 major US airports, 3 European airports and 6 Mexican and Caribbean airports.
There are over 9000&nbsp;km of operating mainline railway, and many tourists see Alberta aboard Via Rail or "Rocky Mountain Railtours".
The Canadian Pacific Railway and Canadian National Railway companies operate railway freight across the province.
Summer brings many festivals to the province.
The "heritage days" festival sees the participation of over 70 national groups.
Calgary is also home to Carifest, the second largest Caribbean festival in the nation (after Caribana in Toronto).
Alberta also has significant ethnic diversity.
Both the Aboriginal Albertans make up approximately three percent of the population.
The major contributors to Alberta's ethnic diversity have been the European nations.
Forty-four percent of Albertans are of Scottish origins.
Both cities are home to Soccer, rugby union and lacrosse are also played professionally in Alberta.
Alberta is home to speakers of a number of languages, with many minority languages growing due to immigration.
English remains the only official language used in all government services, although French is also an official language of the courts.
According to Alberta Economic Development, Edmonton and Calgary both host over four million visitors annually.
Banff, Jasper and the Rocky Mountains are visited by about three million people per year.
Alberta's Rocky Mountains include well known tourist destinations Banff National Park and Jasper National Park.
The two mountain parks are connected by the scenic Icefields Parkway.
Banff is located 128 km west of Calgary on Highway 1 and Jasper is located 366 km west of Edmonton on Yellowhead Highway.
About 1.2 million people pass through the gates of Calgary's world-famous Stampede, a celebration of Canada's own Wild West and the cattle ranching industry.
About 800,000 people enjoy Edmonton's Capital Ex (formerly Klondike Days).
Edmonton was the gateway to the only all-Canadian route to the Yukon gold fields, and the only route which did not require gold-seekers to travel the exhausting and dangerous Chilkoot Pass.
Located in East-Central Alberta is Stettler that draws visitors from around the world.
It boasts one of the few operable steam trains in the world, offering trips through the rolling prairie scenery.
Alberta Prairie Railway Excursions caters to tens of thousands of visitors every year.
Alberta is an important destination for tourists who love to trophies and tall tales from their experiences in Alberta's wilderness.
Alberta has enjoyed a relatively high rate of growth in recent years, due in large part to its burgeoning economy.
Between 2003 and 2004, the province saw high birthrates (on par with some larger provinces such as British Columbia), relatively high immigration, and a high rate of interprovincial migration when compared to other provinces.
The Calgary-Edmonton Corridor is the most urbanized area in the province and one of the densest in Canada.
Many of Alberta's cities and towns have also experienced very high rates of growth in recent history.
Over the past century, Alberta's population rose from 73,022 in 1901 to 3,375,763 in 2006.
Most Albertans identify as evangelical Christians than do other provinces.
Conversely, Alberta also has the second highest percentage of Non-religious residents in Canada (after British Columbia).
Albertans did not attend church last year.
The Western Diocese which is based in Edmonton.
Many people of the Hindu, Sikh, and Muslim faiths also make Alberta their home.
North America's oldest mosque is located in Edmonton.
Most of Alberta's 13,000-some Jews live in Calgary (7,500) and Edmonton (5,000).
The district of Alberta was created as part of the North-West Territories in 1882.
As settlement increased, local representatives to the North-West Legislative Assembly were added.
After a long campaign for autonomy, in 1905 the district of Alberta was enlarged and given provincial status, with the election of Alexander Cameron Rutherford as the first premier.
The three climatic regions (alpine, forest, and prairie) of Alberta are home to many different species of animals.
The south and central prairie was the land of the bison, its grasses providing a great pasture and breeding ground for millions of buffalo.
The buffalo population was decimated during early settlement, but since then buffalo have made a strong comeback, and thrive on farms and in parks all over Alberta.
Alberta is home to many large wolves, fox, lynx, bobcat and mountain lion (cougar).
Central and northern Alberta and the region farther north is the nesting-ground of the migratory birds.
Vast numbers of brown trout, and even sturgeon.
Turtles are found in some water bodies in the southern part of the province.
Frogs and salamanders are a few of the amphibians that make their homes in Alberta.
Alberta is the only province in Canada, as well as one of the few places in the world which is free of Norwegian rats.
Since the early 1950s, the government of Alberta has operated a rat-control program which has been so successful that only isolated instances of wild rat sightings are reported, usually of rats arriving in the province aboard trucks or by rail.
In 2006, Alberta Agriculture reports zero findings of wild rats; the only rat interceptions have been domesticated rats which have been seized from their owners.
It is illegal for individual Albertans to own or keep Norwegian rats of any description; the animals can only be kept in the province by zoos, universities and colleges, and recognized research institutions.
In central and northern Alberta the arrival of spring brings the prairie crocus Aspen poplar, balsam poplar (or cottonwood), and paper birch are the primary large deciduous species.
Conifers include Jack pine, Rocky Mountain pine, Lodgepole pine, both white and black spruce, and the deciduous conifer tamarack.
The "Arctic Circle" is one of the five major Northern Temperate Zone.
The equivalent latitude in the southern hemisphere is called the Antarctic Circle.
The position of the Arctic Circle is not fixed, but varies in a complex manner over time; see "circles of latitude" for information.
The geography north of the Arctic Circle is predominantly ice-covered, but a great deal of land falls within the Circle as well.
The Circle itself in fact passes through eight countries.
Very few people live north of the Arctic Circle due to the cold conditions.
The three largest towns above the Arctic Circle are situated in Russia; Murmansk (population 325,100), Norilsk (135,000), and Vorkuta (85,000).
Norway has about 62,000 inhabitants, whereas Rovaniemi in Finland &mdash; which lies slightly south of the line &mdash; has slightly fewer than 58,000.
Recently the region north of the Arctic Circle has gained significant international attention due primarily to the perceived threat of earth's poles are the points at which the planet tends to warm the fastest thereby acting as harbingers of what is to come.
The melting of the ice in the Circle is making the Northwest Passage, the shipping routes through the northern-most latitudes, more navigable, raising the possibility that some day the Arctic region could become a prime trade route.
In addition it is believed that the Arctic seabed may contain substantial oil fields which may become accessible if the ice covering them melts.
These factors have led to recent international debates as to which nations can claim sovereignty or ownership over the waters north of the Circle.
An "assault rifle" is a Tokarev SVT.
Examples of assault rifles include the AK-47 and the M16 rifle.
Belt-fed weapons or rifles with very limited capacity fixed magazines are also generally not considered assault rifles.
Most common is a capacity of 30 rounds, sometimes 20 rounds.
From ancient times, light infantry had fought in dispersed formations, while heavy infantry had fought in tightly packed formations.
This continued as the sling and spear were replaced by officers in controlling their men during combat.
The adaptation of breechloading rifles (which could be reloaded from a prone position, reducing vulnerability to enemy fire).
If the term is applied retroactively, the first assault rifle was the cartridge, which was only used in small numbers.
The American barrels and bipods that made it more like today's light machine gun or squad automatic weapon, though it did help establish the doctrine of use for light selective fire rifles.
These versions of the BAR were produced in large numbers, widely adopted, and served into the 1960s with the U.S. military and other nations.
Continuing evolution of the intermediate-caliber automatic rifle was primarily driven by ammunition.
In 1942, the United States introduced the Browning Automatic Rifle.
The longer barrel (18-inch) provided the carbine with higher muzzle velocity than pistols and submachine guns chambered for the same .30 round.
Germany, under the Versailles Treaty was limited to a professional army of long service soldiers numbering only 100,000 men and forbade tanks or military aircraft.
This encouraged an approach that emphasized high quality, and reduced emphasis on low cost.
Infantry tactics became based on teams of General Purpose Machine Guns (GPMG) supporting and supported by a section of infantry.
Enemy soldiers, briefly exposed, would be engaged with a high rate burst of fire to cause casualties before they could take cover.
Close range assaults would be conducted by units with submachine guns, for greater mobility, and higher rates of fire.
Germany, like other countries, had observed and studied the emerging demand of infantry rifles evolving since World War I, and their factories made a variety of non-standard cartridges, therefore having less incentive to retain their existing calibers.
Following the end of the war in 1947, Mikhail Kalashnikov developed the AK-47, which was vaguely similar in visual concept and layout to the German StG44, though quite different mechanically.
The designers of the STG 45 moved to Spain and developed the CETME Assault Rifle, which was licensed for use in West Germany, and was subsequently improved to become the German G-3, produced by Heckler and Koch HK.
This is where H&K started.
After WWII and the creation of NATO, the United States insisted on introducing their own Conservative Party, which agreed with the American standardization campaign, the whole project was shelved at the eve of introduction.
The Russians saw no reason to make a rifle that shot beyond a rifleman's ability to aim, and therefore considered a lighter, less-powerful cartridge to be more effective.
This permitted a lighter rifle and allowed a greater amount of the lighter ammunition to be transported in the same amount of space.
Moreover, the smaller cartridges lessened recoil, which allowed riflemen to sustain a higher accurate rate of fire and facilitate marksmanship training.
In addition, the smaller size and handiness of an assault rifle would benefit tank crews, support troops, and units with missions other than front line combat.
The M16 assault rifle.
The M16A1 version soon followed to rectify issues found during use in the Vietnam War.
One aspect of the smaller caliber ammunition that is sometimes hotly debated is its fragmentation behavior.
Stopping capability is the effectiveness of the round in completely stopping the target when it hits &mdash; either killing or fully incapacitating.
Part of the dispute over small-caliber rounds arises here.
Blood loss leads to indirect incapacitation, but often takes longer than direct destruction of tissue.
A pervasive but false urban myth holds that Defense Secretary Project SALVO, but the reality is that nowhere in the SALVO findings was reduced lethality of rifle rounds ever stressed or presented as an argument for adoption of a lighter/smaller caliber round.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the most notable changes since adoption of high velocity, smaller-caliber ammunition were designs that utilized new form factors, sights, electronics, and materials, as well as modularity.
A number of FAMAS and Steyr AUG both have ambidextrous controls, and the Steyr AUG, and SA80 both added a low-power telescopic sight to the standard service version.
The QBZ-95, SAR-21, and the Tavor TAR-21 follow a similar trend as well, with a bullpup configuration and heavy use of composites.
The Heckler & Koch G36, adopted in the late 1990s by Spain and Germany, is of the traditional configuration, but also has integral telescopic and red dot sights and composite exterior.
The G36C variant uses a different barrel assembly, foregrip, and a slightly shorter folding stock to make the weapon carbine length, and features a low full-length rail mount along the top of the rifle in place of the carrying handle and sight assembly, plus shorter rails on the foregrip.
The XM8 rifle, developed from the G36, had similar features, but also added more electronics such as laser sight, round counter, and integral infrared laser and pointers.
Through the 1990s, modular accessories for use on rifles, of a variety of types, started to become widespread with the rapidly increasing practice of mounting Picatinny-style rails on firearms.
This was primarily driven by the growing visibility (and number) of tactical police, counter-terrorist units, special forces, and other groups that desired the capability to specifically tailor their weapons &mdash; be it to the situation at hand, their operational specialty, etc.
Flashlights, visible lasers, infrared lights and lasers, ergonomic accessories such as vertical foregrips and folding or collapsible buttstocks, and a plethora of other options appeared.
Intertwined with the growth of the modular accessories was the concept of rifles being modular themselves.
The G36, for example, can be converted to a compact carbine, a standard rifle, or a squad support weapon (light machine gun) and back again simply by swapping modular parts in a matter of moments.
Interchangeable or quick-detachable barrel assemblies of different lengths are emerging for some weapons, with ingenious retrofit kits to provide similar capabilities on older types.
The AR15 in particular has an entire industry that has grown to make variations of every component of the rifle.
The trend in the new designs, and very likely future ones, is towards more integrated features and lighter weight with new materials and configurations.
Introduction of a new ammunition would require retooling factories, phasing out conventional ammunition, and making general infrastructure changes that are considered by many military planners to be too expensive to undertake.
In the United States there have been developments of new cartridges.
In addition to these new designs, the future may well be the redesign of the past.
Recently, weapons manufacturing giants M4 assault rifle.
The new weapon, the HK416, has updated features.
The include: a piston action, not gas, the bolt is sealed from the action, reducing dirt, heat and chance of failure, 1913 Picatinny rails, drop free magazine release and other subtle, but useful additions.
These and other redesigns are quickly pushing it to the top of the ladder.
Small arms technology including the assault rifle can be described as a personal body armor, which allow it to stop or hinder bullet penetration from intermediate caliber small arms.
As weapons evolve, the delicate balance for assault rifle systems between power, weight, recoil and terminal effects will likely shift once again in an attempt to defeat body armor, to match the range of full-power cartridges, and to penetrate through windshields and thin-skinned vehicles while still producing good terminal effects.
Possible future directions are armor piercing or exploding tip bullets or saboted sub-caliber tungsten darts, more powerful cartridges, carbon fiber barrels and exotic metals such as titanium and scandium.
Primarily limited to the political term, separate from the military definition, used to describe a variety of semi-automatic firearms that have certain features associated with military or police firearms.
A common public misconception persists that the assault weapons ban restricted weapons capable of fully automatic fire, such as assault rifles and machine guns.
Fully automatic weapons, however, were unaffected by the ban, and have been continuously and heavily regulated since the National Firearms Act of 1934 was passed.
Subsequent laws such as the Gun Control Act of 1968 and the Firearm Owners Protection Act of 1986 also affected the importation and civilian ownership of fully automatic firearms, the latter fully prohibiting sales of newly-manufactured machine guns to non-law enforcement.
I thought it was blue/yellow or red/green colourblindness.
This example doesn't fit, because the United States wildlife laws count reptiles as animals.
Reptiles are not non-human mammals.
In the section "Origin and fossil record", the word Eukaryote link to the wikipedia page.
This is probably a stupid request to most of you, but can wiki have an article or topic about animal population growth or decline rates due to human involvement?
What is with the last two paragraphs in the lead?
That is so incredibly innacurate, and badly written.
It needs to be cited to death if you are going to make such silly assumptions.
Perhaps the good user intended to list pterobranchs as a separate phylum of deuterostome animals, which is may be justified, because some biologists appear to doubt that the two groups of hemichordates are each other's closest relatives.
So Pterobranchia may or may not belong in the taxobox, but seemingly not with the arrow worms.
There is also an article for Protostome; it & its taxobox similiarly group the three, as do the articles for Ecdysoza, Lophotrochozoa, and Platyzoa, all supported by both embryological and molecular data.
If you remove the dating from Animalia, though, it'll have to be removed from many other taxonomic groups, a controversial and time-consuming action.
Recently someone moved the Chaetognatha back under the deuterostomes, where they'd been moved out of earlier.
There are some resemblances between chaetognaths among deuterostomes, but recent studies support classifying them as early-branching protostomes or even basal bilaterians.
Some of this evidence is cited in the Chaetognatha article.
The best compromise for now may be to list the chaetognaths as bilaterians but not deuterostomes.
The text of the Animal article now mentions the dispute about the chaetognaths' affinities.
My understanding is that the first pogonophoran tube worms discovered were classified in the annelid family Siboglinidae.
Later biologists separated them into the phylum Pogonophora.
The giant tube worms from hot vents also belonged to that phylum, although some separted them into their own phylum, Vestimentifera.
More recently, molecular phylogenies have shown them to belong among the annelids after all.
This is the impetus behind restoring their original assignment as Sibloglinidae (which has the -idae suffix of a Linnaean family).
This assignment may still be disputed, but I don't know of any studies that have refuted it.
Maybe some workers recognize pogonophorans as annelid descendents but grant them a separate phylum because they look so different.
Regarding the Smithsonian Institution, there is an interesting connection.
One of the authors of a morphological study that concludes that pogonophorans (siboglinids) are nested well within Annelida, Kristian Fauchald, is the curator of worms at the Smithsonian.
So this book about the ocean may reflect a disagreement within the organization, or could be a popular work that's using a more traditional classification.
I like TOLWeb and I like molecular (cladistic) phylogenies, but I'm not a trained biologist, and the morphological taxonomies have their supporters in WP, as well.
Should all animals be defined as parasites, as, like their Opisthokonta relatives the fungi, they live off of other organisms?
I am quite sure that not all animals can generate locomotion.
Why are deuterostomes placed directly after the sponges and coelocentrates/cnidaria?
The last section of this article seems to proceed from complexity to simplicity, obfuscating the evolutionary sequence.
All living thinga are current branches of the evolutionary tree, and thus in a sense equally evolved, but surely it makes sense to list animal phyla in order of their complexity, so as to foster comprehension of evolutionary sequence and make for ease of reference.
I frankly suspect creationist meddling.
I think the problem here is that this page has been set up to house both Animalia and Metazoa as synonyms.
For many scientists, and for purposes of informational clarity, this synonymization simply doesn't work.
For example, several statements in the article have to be qualified due to sponges not quite "making the grade" (pun intended).
Surely the correct way to express it is along the lines of.
In both cases there is a complete digestive tract.
In deuterostomes this is reversed.
Please make no further additions to the list.
For scientists and scholars of Anthropologists" ".
The original member countries were the four countries whose journals merged to form A&A (France, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden) together with Belgium, Denmark, Finland and Norway.
Norway later withdrew, but Austria, Greece, Italy, Spain and Switzerland all joined.
The Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia all joined as new members in the 1990s.
In 2001 the words "A European Journal" were removed from the front cover in recognition that the journal was becoming increasingly global in scope, and in 2002 Argentina was admitted as an 'observer'.
In 2004 the Board of Directors decided that "A&A will henceforth consider applications for sponsoring membership from any country in the world with well-documented active and excellent astronomical research".
Argentina became the first non-European country to gain full membership in 2005.
Brazil, Chile and Portugal all gained 'observer' status at this time and have since progressed to full membership.
In terms of numbers, actinopterygians are the dominant class of marine environments from the deep sea to the highest mountain streams.
Some morphological evidence suggests that the second is paraphyletic and should be abandoned; however, recent work based on the analysis of DNA sequence data from the complete mitochondrial genome supports its recognition.
Nearly all living bony fishes are teleosts.
Einstein's many contributions to unified field theory, and the geometrization of physics.
When Albert was five, his father showed him a pocket mechanical devices for fun, and began to show a talent for mathematics.
From Euclid, Albert began to understand deductive reasoning (integral to theoretical physics), and by the age of twelve, he learned Euclidean geometry from a school booklet.
Soon thereafter he began to investigate calculus.
In his early teens, Albert attended the new and progressive Luitpold Gymnasium.
His father intended for him to pursue electrical engineering, but Albert clashed with authorities and resented the school regimen.
He later wrote that the spirit of learning and creative thought were lost in strict rote learning.
Albert had been left behind in Munich to finish high school, but in the spring of 1895, he withdrew to join his family in Pavia, convincing the school to let him go by using a doctor's note.
Rather than completing high school, Albert decided to apply directly to the ETH Zurich, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, Switzerland.
Without a school certificate, he was required to take an entrance examination, which he did not pass, although he got exceptional marks in mathematics and physics.
Einstein graduated in 1900 from ETH with a degree in physics.
Following graduation, Einstein could not find a teaching post.
After almost two years of searching, a former classmate's father helped him get a job in examiner.
His responsibility was evaluating patent applications for electromagnetic devices.
In 1903, Einstein's position at the Swiss Patent Office was made permanent, although he was passed over for promotion until he "fully mastered machine technology".
Einstein's college friend, Michele Besso, also worked at the patent office.
While this period at the patent office has often been cited as a waste of Einstein's talents, or as a temporary job with no connection to his interests in physics, the historian of science Peter Galison has argued that Einstein's work there was connected to his later interests.
In 1905, while he was working in the patent office, Einstein had four papers published in the "Annalen der Physik", the leading German physics journal.
At the age of 26, having studied under PhD by the University of Zurich.
In 1906, the patent office promoted Einstein to Technical Examiner Second Class, but he was not giving up on academia.
In 1908, he became a why the sky is blue.
In their excitement, the world media made Albert Einstein world-famous.
Ironically, later examination of the photographs taken on the Eddington expedition showed that the experimental uncertainty was of about the same magnitude as the effect Eddington claimed to have demonstrated, and in 1962 a British expedition concluded that the method used was inherently unreliable.
The deflection of light during a solar eclipse has, however, been more accurately measured (and confirmed) by later observations.
There was some resentment toward the newcomer Einstein's fame in the scientific community, notably among German physicists, who later started the "Deutsche Physik" (German Physics) movement.
Einstein traveled to New York City in the United States for the first time on April 2, 1921.
When asked where he got his scientific ideas, Einstein explained that he believed scientific work best proceeds from an examination of physical reality and a search for underlying axioms, with consistent explanations that apply in all instances and avoid contradicting each other.
Einstein's research after general relativity consisted primarily of a long series of attempts to generalize his theory of gravitation in order to unify and simplify the fundamental laws of physics, particularly gravitation and electromagnetism.
Although he continued to be lauded for his work in theoretical physics, Einstein became increasingly isolated in his research, and his attempts were ultimately unsuccessful.
In his pursuit of a unification of the fundamental forces, he ignored some mainstream developments in physics (and vice versa), most notably the strong and weak nuclear forces, which were not well understood until many years after Einstein's death.
Einstein's goal of unifying the laws of physics under a single model survives in the current drive for the grand unification theory.
Einstein suggested to thermodynamic properties of a semiclassical ideal gas.
Einstein to add his name as co-author, although Einstein declined the invitation.
In the 1920s, debate between Einstein and Bohr followed, lasting for many years (including during the Solvay Conferences).
Einstein formulated thought experiments against the Copenhagen interpretation, which were all rebutted by Bohr.
Einstein's disagreement with Bohr revolved around the idea of scientific Einstein-Bohr debate have found their way into philosophical discourse as well.
I do not believe in a personal God and I have never denied this but have expressed it clearly.
He participated in the 1927 congress of the League against Imperialism in Brussels.
Einstein was a cultural Zionist.
In 1931, The Macmillan Company published "About Zionism: Speeches and Lectures by Professor Albert Einstein".
Querido, an Amsterdam publishing house, collected eleven of Einstein's essays into a 1933 book entitled "Mein Weltbild", translated to English as "The World as I See It"; Einstein's foreword dedicates the collection "to the Jews of Germany".
In the face of Germany's rising militarism, Einstein wrote and spoke for peace.
Despite his years of Zionist efforts, Einstein publicly stated reservations about the proposal to partition the British-supervised British Mandate of Palestine into independent Arab and Jewish countries.
Einstein served on the Board of Governors of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
In his Will of 1950, Einstein bequeathed literary rights to his writings to The Hebrew University, where many of his original documents are held in the Albert Einstein Archives.
When President Chaim Weizmann died in 1952, Einstein was asked to be Israel's second president, but he declined.
In January 1933, Adolf Hitler was appointed Chancellor of Germany.
The Einstein family bought a house in Princeton (where Elsa died in 1936), and Einstein remained an integral contributor to the Institute for Advanced Study until his death in 1955.
During the 1930s and into World War II, Einstein wrote visas for a huge number of Jews from Europe trying to flee persecution, raised money for Zionist organizations and was in part responsible for the formation, in 1933, of the International Rescue Committee.
Einstein became a citizen of the United States in 1940, although he retained his Swiss citizenship.
The United States took stock of this warning, and within five years, the U.S. created its own nuclear weapons, and used them on the Japanese cities of Nagasaki and Hiroshima.
Einstein was a member of several American Crusade to End Lynching, lasted 20 years.
Although Einstein had long been sympathetic to the notion of vegetarianism, it was only near the start of 1954 that he adopted a strict vegetarian diet.
Before the cremation, Princeton Hospital pathologist Einstein's brain for preservation, in hope that the neuroscience of the future would be able to discover what made Einstein so intelligent.
While travelling, Einstein had written daily to his wife Elsa and adopted stepdaughters, Margot and Ilse, and the letters were included in the papers bequeathed to BBC that there are about 3,500 pages of private correspondence written between 1912 and 1955.
The United States' National Academy of Sciences commissioned the "Albert Einstein Memorial", a monumental bronze and marble sculpture by Robert Berks, dedicated in 1979 at its Washington, D.C. campus adjacent to the National Mall.
Einstein bequeathed the agent for the Hebrew University.
In 1990, his name was added to the Walhalla temple.
In the period before World War II, Albert Einstein was so well known in America that he would be stopped on the street by people wanting him to explain "that theory".
He finally figured out a way to handle the incessant inquiries.
The following publications by Albert Einstein are referenced in this article.
A more complete list of his publications may be found at Works by Albert Einstein.
This annus mirabilis paper on the photoelectric effect was received by Annalen der Physik March 18.
This PhD thesis was completed April 30 and submitted July 20.
This annus mirabilis paper on Brownian motion was received May 11.
This annus mirabilis paper on special relativity was received June 30.
Does the Inertia of a Body Depend Upon Its Energy Content?
This annus mirabilis paper on mass-energy equivalence was received September 27.
First of a series of papers on this topic.
On Baer's law and meanders in the courses of rivers.
Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete?
Afghanistan is a culturally mixed nation, a crossroads between the third Anglo-Afghan war, the country regained full independence from the United Kingdom over its foreign affairs.
Since the late 1970s, Afghanistan has suffered continuous and brutal US invasion of Afghanistan, in which the ruling Taliban government was toppled.
In December 2001, the reconstruction of the country.
Despite this, as of November 2007, the British Government was still advising against all travel to most of Afghanistan due to "ongoing military activity and lawlessness".
There are different theories about the origin of the word Afghan, its age, and its meaning.
Afghanistan is currently facing a serious environmental crisis.
The country's natural resources include gold, silver, copper, zinc and iron ore in southeastern areas; precious and semi-precious stones such as lapis, emerald and azure in the north-east; and potentially significant petroleum and natural gas reserves in the north.
However, these significant mineral and energy resources remain largely untapped due to the effects of the Soviet invasion and the subsequent civil war.
Plans are underway to begin extracting them in the near future.
Afghanistan is a country at a unique nexus point where numerous Americans and their allies have taken place.
On the other hand, native entities have invaded surrounding regions in Iranian plateau and Indian subcontinent to form empires of their own.
It has been speculated that Hellenistic successor states of the Seleucids and Greco-Bactrians controlled the area, while the Mauryas from India annexed the southeast for a time and introduced Buddhism to the region until the area returned to the Bactrian rule.
During the first century Muslim armies.
In the Khorasan.
In 1709, Hotaki dynasty was eventually removed from power by a new ruler, Nadir Shah of Persia.
In 1738 Nadir Shah and his army, which included four thousand Pashtuns of the Ali Qoli.
In the same year, one of Nadir's military commanders and personal bodyguard, Ahmad Shah Abdali, a Pashtun from the Abdali clan, called for a loya jirga following Nadir's death.
The Afghans gathered at Kandahar and chose Ahmad Shah as their King.
Since then, he is often regarded as the founder of modern Afghanistan.
By 1751 Ahmad Shah Durrani and his Afghan army conquered the entire present-day Afghanistan, Pakistan, Khorasan and Kohistan provinces of Iran, along with Delhi in India.
In October 1772, Ahmad Shah retired to his home in Maruf, Kandahar, where he died peacefully.
He was succeeded by his son, Timur Shah Durrani, who transferred the capital from Kandahar to Kabul.
Timur died in 1793 and was finally succeeded by his son Zaman Shah Durrani.
During the nineteenth century, following the King Zahir Shah.
However, in 1973 Zahir Shah's brother-in-law, Great Saur Revolution and took over the government.
As part of a Afghans fled their country to Pakistan, Iran and other parts of the world.
Faced with mounting international pressure and great number of casualties on both sides, the Soviets withdrew in 1989.
The Soviet withdrawal from the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan was seen as an ideological victory in the US, which had backed the Mujahideen through three US presidential administrations in order to counter Soviet influence in the vicinity of the oil-rich Persian Gulf.
Following the removal of the Soviet forces, the US and its allies lost interest in Afghanistan and did little to help rebuild the war-ravaged country or influence events there.
The result of the fighting was that the vast majority of the elites and intellectuals had escaped to take refuge abroad, a dangerous leadership vacuum thereby coming into existence.
Fighting continued among the victorious Mujahideen factions, eventually giving rise to a state of warlordism.
The most serious fighting during this period occurred in 1994, when over 10,000 people were killed in Kabul alone.
The chaos and corruption that dominated post-Soviet Afghanistan in turn spawned the rise of the Taliban.
The Taliban developed as a politico-religious force, and eventually seized Kabul in 1996.
By the end of 2000 the Taliban were able to capture 95% of the country, aside from the opposition (Afghan Northern Alliance) strongholds primarily found in the northeast corner of Badakhshan Province.
The Taliban sought to impose a very strict interpretation of Islamic law.
During the Taliban's seven-year rule, much of the population experienced restrictions on their freedom and violations of their human rights.
Women were banned from jobs, girls forbidden to attend schools or universities.
Those who resisted were punished instantly.
Communists were systematically eradicated and thieves were punished by amputating one of their hands or feet.
Meanwhile, the Taliban managed to nearly eradicate the majority of the opium production by 2001.
Following the plan for the formulation of a new democratic government that resulted in the inauguration of Hamid Karzai, an ethnic Pashtun from the southern city of Kandahar, as Chairman of the Afghan Interim Authority.
Following an election in October 2004, Hamid Karzai won and became the President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Legislative elections were held in September 2005.
The National Assembly &ndash; the first freely elected legislature in Afghanistan since 1973 &ndash; sat in December 2005, and was noteworthy for the inclusion of women as voters, candidates, and elected members.
As the country continues to rebuild and recover, it is still struggling against poverty, poor poppy cultivation and opium trade.
Afghanistan also remains subject to occasionally violent political jockeying.
The country continues to grapple with the Taliban insurgency and the threat of attacks from a few remaining al Qaeda.
At the start of 2007 reports of the Taliban's increasing presence in Afghanistan led the US to consider longer tours of duty and even an increase in troop numbers.
Afghanistan is currently led by President parliament was elected in 2005.
Among the elected officials were former mujahadeen, Taliban members, communists, reformists, and Islamic fundamentalists.
This made Afghanistan, long known under the Taliban for its oppression of women, one of the leading countries in terms of female representation.
Construction for a new parliament building began on August 29, 2005.
The technocrats than the previous court, although it has yet to issue any rulings.
Afghanistan currently has 60,000 police officers.
It plans to recruit 20,000 more officers so that the total number can reach up to 80,000.
They are being trained by and through the Afghanistan Police Program.
Although the police officially are responsible for maintaining civil order, sometimes local and regional military commanders continue to exercise control in the hinterland.
Police have been accused of improper treatment and detention of prisoners.
In 2003 the mandate of the International Security Assistance Force, now under command of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was extended and expanded beyond the Kabul area.
However, in some areas unoccupied by those forces, local militias maintain control.
In many areas, crimes have gone uninvestigated because of insufficient police and/or communications.
Troops of the Afghan National Army have been sent to quell fighting in some regions lacking police protection.
The Governor of the province is appointed by the Ministry of Interior, and the Prefects for the districts of the province will be appointed by the provincial Governor.
The Governor is the representative of the central government of Afghanistan, and is responsible for all administrative and formal issues.
The provincial Chief of Police is appointed by the Ministry of Interior, who works together with the Governor on law enforcement for all the cities or districts of that province.
There is an exception in the capital city (Kabul) where the Mayor is selected by the President of Afghanistan, and is completely independent from the prefecture of the Kabul Province.
Afghanistan is an impoverished country, one of the world's poorest and least developed.
Two-thirds of the population lives on fewer than 2 US dollars a day.
The economically active population in 2002 was about 11 million (out of a total of an estimated 29 million).
As of 2005, the official unemployment rate is at 40%.
The number of non-skilled young people is estimated at 3 million, which is likely to increase by some 300,000 per annum.
However, Afghanistan has achieved respectable economic recovery and growth since 2002.
As much as one-third of Afghanistan's GDP comes from growing poppy and illicit drugs including opium and its two derivatives, morphine and heroin, as well as hashish production.
Opium production in Afghanistan has soared to a new record in 2007, with an increase on last year of more than a third, the United Nations has said.
Some 3.3 million Afghans are now involved in producing opium.
Afghanistan could well be slipping back to chaos and civil strife.
Another 4 billion US dollars were committed in 2004 followed by 10.5 billion US dollars in early 2006 at the London Conference.
In early 2007, 11.6 billion dollars were committed to the country from the United States alone.
Priority areas for reconstruction include the rebuilding of the educational system, health, and sanitation facilities, enhancement of administrative capacity, the development of the agricultural sector, and the rebuilding of road, energy, and telecommunication links.
According to a 2004 report by the Asian Development Bank, the present reconstruction effort is two-pronged: first it focuses on rebuilding critical physical infrastructure, and second, on building modern public sector institutions from the remnants of Soviet style planning to ones that promote market-led development.
In 2006, two US companies, Black & Veatch and the Louis Berger Group, have won a US 1.4 billion dollar contract to rebuild roads, power lines and water supply systems of Afghanistan.
One of the main drivers for the current economic recovery is the return of over 4 million refugees from neighbouring countries and the West, who brought with them fresh energy, entrepreneurship and wealth-creating skills as well as much needed funds to start up businesses.
While the country's current account deficit is largely financed with the donor money, only a small portion &ndash; about 15% &ndash; is provided directly to the government budget.
The rest is provided to non-budgetary expenditure and donor-designated projects through the customs, as income and corporate tax bases are negligible.
Inflation had been a major problem until 2002.
Since then, the index has indicated stability, with a moderate increase toward late 2003.
The Afghan government and international donors seem to remain committed to improving access to basic necessities, infrastructure development, education, housing and economic reform.
The central government is also focusing on improved revenue collection and public sector expenditure discipline.
The rebuilding of the financial sector seems to have been so far successful.
Money can now be transferred in and out of the country via official banking channels.
Since 2003, over fourteen new banks have opened in the country, including Standard Chartered Bank, Afghanistan International Bank, Kabul Bank, Azizi Bank, First Micro Finance Bank, and others.
A new law on private investment provides three to seven-year tax holidays to eligible companies and a four-year exemption from exports tariffs and duties.
Some private investment projects, backed with national support, are also beginning to pick up steam in Afghanistan.
The overall good news is the country has potential to quickly come out of poverty and become an economically stable country.
This is due to many reports showing that the country has possession of mass amounts of high demand natural resources and minerals.
According to the US Geological Survey and the Afghan Ministry of Mines and Industry, Afghanistan may be possessing up to 36 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, 3.6 billion barrels of petroleum and up to 1,325 million barrels of natural gas liquids.
Afghanistan is now a member of Organization of the Islamic Conference.
The population of Afghanistan is divided into a wide variety of ethnic groups.
Because a systematic census has not been held in the country in decades, exact figures about the size and composition of the various ethnic groups are not available.
Therefore most figures are approximations only.
Religiously, Afghans are over 99% Hindus and Sikhs living in different cities, mostly in Jalalabad, Kabul, and Kandahar.
The only city in Afghanistan with over one million residents is its capital, Kabul.
The other major cities in the country are, in order of population size, Kandahar, Herat, Mazari Sharif, Jalalabad, Ghazni and Kunduz.
Afghans display pride in their religion, country, ancestry, and above all, their independence.
Like other highlanders, Afghans are regarded with mingled apprehension and condescension, for their high regard for personal honor, for their clan loyalty and for their readiness to carry and use arms to settle disputes.
As clan warfare and internecine feuding has been one of their chief occupations since time immemorial, this individualistic trait has made it difficult for foreign invaders to hold the region.
Afghanistan has a complex history that has survived either in its current cultures or in the form of various languages and monuments.
However, many of the country's historic monuments have been damaged in recent wars.
The two famous statues of Buddha in the Bamyan Province were destroyed by the Taliban, who regarded them as UNESCO World Heritage site.
The cloak worn by Muhammad is stored inside the famous Khalka Sharifa in Kandahar City.
Although literacy levels are very low, classic Persian poetry plays a very important role in the Afghan culture.
Poetry has always been one of the major educational pillars in Iran and Afghanistan, to the level that it has integrated itself into culture.
Persian culture has, and continues to, exert a great influence over Afghan culture.
Many of the famous Persian poets of the tenth to fifteenth centuries stem from Khorasan where is now known as Afghanistan.
They were mostly also scholars in many disciplines like languages, natural sciences, medicine, religion and astronomy.
In addition to poets and authors, numerous Isfahan later in life to establish a medical school there, is known by some scholars as "the father of modern medicine".
Before the Taliban gained power, the city of Kabul was home to many musicians who were masters of both traditional and modern Afghan music, especially during the Nauroz-celebration.
Kabul in the middle part of the twentieth century has been likened to Vienna during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
The tribal system, which orders the life of most people outside metropolitan areas, is potent in political terms.
Men feel a fierce loyalty to their own tribe, such that, if called upon, they would assemble in arms under the tribal chiefs and local clan leaders (Khans).
In theory, under Islamic law, every believer has an obligation to bear arms at the ruler's call (Ulul-Amr).
Heathcote considers the tribal system to be the best way of organizing large groups of people in a country that is geographically difficult, and in a society that, from a materialistic point of view, has an uncomplicated lifestyle.
Afghanistan has rapidly advanced in communication technology, and now has wireless companies, Internet, radio stations and television channels.
Afghanistan's commercial airline, Ariana Afghan Airlines, now serves flights to Frankfurt, Dubai and Istanbul to and from Kabul and Herat.
In early 2003 it was estimated that 30% of Afghanistan's 7,000 schools had been very seriously damaged during more than two decades of civil war.
Only half of the schools were reported to have clean water, while fewer than an estimated 40% had adequate sanitation.
As regards the poverty and violence of their surroundings, a study in 2002 by the Save the Children Fund said Afghan children were resilient and courageous.
The study credited the strong institutions of family and community.
As of 2006 more than four million male and female students are enrolled in schools throughout the country.
Primary education is totally free and available for all boys and girls.
Literacy of the entire population is estimated (as of 1999) at 36%, the male literacy rate is 51% and female literacy is 21%.
Up to now there are 9,500 schools in the country.
Albania borders Greece to the south-east, Montenegro to the north, the Serbian province of Kosovo to the northeast, and the Republic of Macedonia to the east.
It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea to the west, and on the Ionian Sea to the southwest.
Albania is a parliamentary democracy that is transforming its economy into a market-oriented system, a NATO.
The ultimate origin of the "Alb-" element has been traced to an alp" "mountain pasture" found in the Alpine region.
The people who lived there were called "Arbanios" and "Arbanitai".
Another suggestion is derivation from the Illyrian tribe of the Albanoi recorded by Ptolemy the geographer and astronomer from Alexandria, who drafted a map of remarkable significance for the history of Illyria.
Albania, in the southern corner of Europe, has been populated since prehistoric times and was settled by the Romans, Byzantines, Venetians and Ottomans swept through, leaving their cultural mark as well as their ruins.
Archaeological research shows that the lands that are today inhabited by Albanians were first populated in the Paleolithic Age (Stone Age).
The first areas settled were those with favourable climatic and geographic conditions.
In Albania, the earliest settlements have been discovered in the Gajtan cavern (Shkodra), in Konispol, at Mount Dajti, and at Saranda.
Fragments of Cyclopean structures, were discovered at Kretsunitsa, Arinishta, and other sites in the district of Gjirokastra.
The walls, partly Cyclopean, of an ancient city (perhaps Byllis) are visible at Gradishti on the picturesque Viosa River.
The Illyrians created and developed their culture and language in the western part of the Balkans, where ancient writers mentioned them in their works.
The regions that the Illyrians inhabited were expansive, encompassing the western Balkan peninsula, north to central Europe, and east around the Lyhind Lake (Ohrid Lake).
Other Illyrian tribes also migrated and developed in Italy.
Among them were the Messapii and Iapyges.
The first and perhaps the most important of Greece's colonies in Albania was founded at Epidamnus in 627 B.C. by Greeks from Corcyra (present-day Corfu) and Corinth.
Greek and Roman authors called it "the Admirable City" for its temple, statues, and other monuments.
Fertile soil and a large seaport accounted for the colony's prosperity and success in commerce.
Growth brought to the lower classes wealth and asubsequent desire to have more of a government voice, leading to a civil war between the small ruling class (oligarchs) and most of the population.
The people requested Corinth's assistance in battle, while the oligarchs sought aid from Corcyra.
Corinth was allied with Sparta and Corcyra, upon this request, applied for aid from Athens.
Therefore, the intervention of Corinth on the side of the people and Corcyra on the side of the oligarchs led to the deeper conflict between Athens, Sparta, and their respective allies known as the Peloponnesian War.
The early success of Epidamnus led to more Hellenic colonies in the region.
Roughly parallel with the rise of Greek colonies, Illyrian tribes began to evolve politically from relatively small and simple entities into larger and more complex ones.
At first they formed temporary alliances with one another for defensive or offensive purposes, then federations and, still later, kingdoms.
In 355 BC, war broke out against Alexander of Macedonia to free the eastern territories and in the meantime Apollonia was freed from Macedonian rule.
After Alexander's death in 323 BC, independent Illyrian kingdoms again arose.
Glaukia's successors (Monun and Mytyl) strengthened the Illyrian state economically and minted both bronze and silver coins.
Soon after the mid-3rd century BC, under the reign of Pleurat and Agron, the Illyrian state started to prosper again.
In 231 BC, they entered into an alliance with Acarnania and became a prominent power in the Balkans.
The Romans militarily destroyed Illyrian autonomy in 165 BC.
In the first decades under Byzantine rule (until 461), Illyria suffered the devastation of raids by Visigoths, Huns, and Ostrogoths.
Not long after these barbarian invaders swept through the Balkans, the Slavs appeared.
Between the 6th and 8th centuries they settled in Illyrian territories and proceeded to assimilate Illyrian tribes in much of what is now Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia.
The tribes of southern Illyria, however, including modern Albania, averted assimilation and preserved their native tongue.
After the fall of the Roman Empire, Albania was incorporated into the Byzantine Empire, administered from Constantinople.
Albania was under Byzantine rule until the 14th century AD when the Ottoman Turks began to make incursions into the empire.
The Ottomans captured Constantinople in 1453, and by 1460 almost all former Byzantine territories were in the hands of the Turks.
The Ottoman Turks expanded their empire from Anatolia to the Balkans in the 14th century.
By the 15th century, the Turks had brought under subjection nearly all of the Balkan peninsula except for a small coastal strip which is included in present-day Albania.
Albanian resistance to the Turks in the mid-15th century won them acclaim all over Europe.
Albania became a symbol of resistance to the Ottoman Turks but suffered an almost continuous state of warfare.
One of the most successful resistance against the invading Yanya until 1912.
After the Montenegrin, and Greek occupation forces on the ground, and under immense pressure from Austria-Hungary, it was decided that the country should not be divided but instead consolidated into the Principality of Albania.
However, the Austro-Italian project was not successful.
Afterwards he was also declared Field Marshal of the Royal Albanian Army on September 1, 1928.
He proclaimed a constitutional monarchy similar to the contemporary regime in Italy.
During his reign he is said to have survived over 55 assassination attempts.
One of these occurred in 1931 while Zog was visiting a Vienna opera house for a performance of Pagliacci.
The attackers struck whilst Zog was getting into his car, and he survived by drawing his own pistol (which he always carried) and firing back at his would-be assassins.
This is the only occasion in modern history when a Head of State has returned fire with potential assassins.
Styling himself a European king, he married Hungarian noblewoman Geraldine Apponyi de Nagy-Apponyi.
His reign ended when Italian fascists invaded Albania in April 7, 1939.
The communists took power after the Second World War.
After the fall of the communist government, his son Leka, Crown Prince of Albania and the royal family returned to Albania on June 28, 2002.
Albania is unique in that it is the only European country occupied by the Holocaust is especially notable because it was Europe's only largely Muslim country.
Even so only a Jewish family of six was deported and killed during the Nazi occupation of Albania.
Not only did the Albanians protect their own Jews, but they provided refuge for Jews from neighboring countries.
The Albanians refused to comply and hand over lists of Jews.
Instead they provided the Jewish families with forged documents and helped them disperse in the Albanian population.
In February 1944, when the Nazis descended upon the mountain hiding place, not a single Jew fell into their hands.
During the Holocaust, Albania was the only country in Europe that protected and sheltered its entire Jewish population, both native and foreign.
There was no history of ideological anti-Semitism in Albania so it was unique in this regard.
The small number of Jews in Albania also played a key role in the possibility to protect them all.
During the Italian occupation, they were able to disperse and blend in with the general population.
However, the role of the Albanian population as a whole in saving Jews is undeniable.
From 1944 to 1991, Albania became a People's Republic and was a one-party state in which Enver Hoxha ruled with an austere hand.
The first massive anti-communist protests took place in July 1990.
Shortly afterwards, the communist regime under Ramiz Alia carried out some cosmetic changes in the economy.
At the end of 1990, after strong student protests and independent syndicated movements, the regime accepted a multiparty system.
The first multiparty general elections were held on March 31, 1991 and the Communist Party (PPSH) won the majority.
Opposition parties accused the government of manipulation and called for new elections, which were held on March 22, 1992 and resulted in a coalition (composed of the Democratic Party, the Social-Democrats, and the Republican Party) coming to power.
However, stability was far from being restored in the years after the 1997 riots.
The power feuds raging inside the Socialist Party led to a series of short-lived Socialist governments.
The country was flooded with refugees from neighboring Kosovo in 1998 and 1999 during the Kosovo War.
The workforce of Albania has continued to migrate to Greece, Italy, Germany, other parts of Europe, and North America.
However, the migration flux is slowly decreasing, as more and more opportunities are emerging in Albania itself as its economy steadily develops.
Albanian emigrants have achieved great success in multiple geographies and disciplines abroad.
In particular, there is now a significant Albanian community in the United Kingdom, in cities such as Birmingham and Manchester.
The Albanian diaspora is most prevalent in Liverpool, where Albanian cuisine has something of a cult following.
Albania has a total area of 28,750 square kilometers.
Its coastline is 362 kilometres long and stretches on the Adriatic Sea and the Ionian Sea.
The lowlands of the west face the Adriatic Sea.
The 70% of the country that is mountainous is rugged and often inaccessible.
As of July 2007, Albania's population of 3,600,523 is growing by 0.73% per year.
Albania is a largely ethnically homogeneous country with only small minorities.
Majority of the total population is considered Greek.
Christianity manifested itself in Albania during Roman rule during the middle of the 1st century AD.
At first, the new religion had to compete with Oriental cults such as those worshiping Persian god of light, which had entered the land in the wake of Albania's growing interaction with eastern regions of the Roman Empire.
For a long time, it also had to compete with gods worshiped by Illyrian pagans.
The steady growth of the Christian community in Dyrrhachium (the Roman name for Epidamnus) led to the creation there of a bishopric in 58 AD.
After the division of the Roman Empire in 395, Albania became politically a part of the Eastern Roman Empire, but remained ecclesiastically dependent on Rome.
When the final schism occurred in 1054 between the Western and Eastern churches, the Christians in southern Albania came under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarch in Constantinople, and those in the north came under the purview of the Papacy in Rome.
This arrangement prevailed until the Ottoman invasions of the 14th century, when the Islamic faith was introduced.
One of the major legacies of nearly five centuries of Ottoman rule was the conversion of up to 60 percent of the Albanian population to Islam.
Therefore, the country emerged as a partly Muslim nation after its independence from Ottoman rule.
In the mountainous north, the propagation of Islam was strongly opposed by Roman Catholics.
Albania was preponderantly Roman Catholic, with eighteen episcopal Sees, some of which have an uninterrupted history from the dawn of Christendom until today.
Albania was the last Roman Catholic bridgehead in the Balkans and the Popes were doing everything in their power to keep it and enlarge it.
Gradually, however, backwardness, illiteracy, and the absence of an educated clergy and material inducements weakened the resistance.
Today, with the freedom of religion and worship, Albania contains numerous religions and denominations.
Religious fanaticism has never been a problem, with people from different religious groups living in peace.
Interreligious marriage is very common, and an immensely strong sense of Albanian identity has tended to bind Albanians of all religious practices together.
For generations, religious pragmatism was a distinctive trait of the Albanians.
Even after accepting Islam, many people privately remained practicing Christians.
As late as 1912, in a large number of villages in the Elbasan area, most men had two names, a Muslim one for public use and a Christian one for private use.
Adherence to ancient pagan beliefs also continued well into the 20th century, particularly in the northern mountain villages, many of which were devoid of churches and mosques.
Following the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in June/July 2006, EU ministers urged Albania to push ahead with reforms, focusing on freedom of press, property rights, institution building, respect for ethnic minorities and observing international standards in municipal elections.
Albania has made an impressive recovery, building a modern and diversified economy.
Recent administrations have also improved the country's infrastructure and opened competition in seaports, railroads, telecommunications, electricity generation, natural gas distribution and airports.
Tourism in Albania is a large industry and is growing rapidly.
The Albanian Armed Forces are overseen by the General Staff Headquarters, and consists of Land Forces Command (Army), Naval Forces Command (Navy), Air Defense Command, Doctrine and Training Command and Logistics Command.
In 2002, Albania's armed forces have launched a 10-year reform program sponsored and supervised by the United States Department of Defense in order to trim down and thoroughly modernize its current standing force of more than 25,000 troops.
Working towards NATO membership, the Adriatic Charter countries (Albania, Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia) are expected to join the alliance in 2008.
Currently, the Albanian army participates in peacekeeping missions in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
Butrint, UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The Greek colony of Apollonia site in Fier, Albania.
A cliff overshadowing the coastal sea.
The fourteenth century Church of the Holy Trinity,Albania.
The theater at Butrint.
The term was also used by pagan Meccans as a reference to the creator-god, possibly the supreme deity in pre-Islamic Arabia.
In pre-Islamic Arabia, Allah was not the sole divinity, had associates and companions, sons and daughters.
There was also a kind of kinship of between Allah and the Trinitarian conception of God as three persons in one substance (see Trinity).
In Islam, Allah is the name of the nameless God.
Allah is the pivot of the Muslim faith, Britannica Encyclopedia states.
He is the creator of the universe, and the judge of humankind.
Arabic-speakers of all God the Holy Spirit (See God in Christianity for the Christian concept of God).
According to Marshall Hodgson, it seems that in the pre-Islamic times, some Arab Christians made pilgrimage to the Kaaba, a pagan temple at that time, honoring Allah there as God the Creator.
On average, Antarctica is the coldest, driest and windiest continent, and has the highest average precipitation, except at the coasts, the interior of the continent is technically the largest desert in the world.
There are no permanent human residents and there is no evidence of any existing or pre-historic indigenous population.
Only cold-adapted plants and animals survive there, including penguins, fur seals, mosses, lichen, and many types of algae.
However, the continent remained largely neglected for the rest of the 19th century because of its hostile environment, lack of resources, and isolation.
The Antarctic Treaty was signed in 1959 by twelve countries; to date, forty-five countries have signed the treaty.
The treaty prohibits military activities and mineral mining, supports scientific research, and protects the continent's ecozone.
Ongoing experiments are conducted by more than 4,000 scientists of many nationalities and with different research interests.
European maps continued to show this hypothetical land until Captain John Davis in Western Antarctica on February 7, 1821, although some historians dispute this claim.
During an Scott Expedition reached the pole.
Centered asymmetrically around the Atlantic, and Indian Oceans, or by the southern waters of the World Ocean.
Antarctica is divided in two by the Western Antarctica and the remainder Eastern Antarctica, because they roughly correspond to the Western and Eastern Hemispheres relative to the Greenwich meridian.
About 98% of Antarctica is covered by the dry valleys the same effect occurs over a rock base, leading to a desiccated landscape.
Western Antarctica is covered by the Antarctic ice shelves.
Antarctica is home to more than 70 Europa.
If life is discovered in Lake Vostok, this would strengthen the argument for the possibility of life on Europa.
More than 170 million years ago, Antarctica was part of the supercontinent Gondwana.
Over time, Gondwana gradually broke apart and Antarctica as we know it today was formed around 25 million years ago.
During the Cambrian period, Gondwana had a mild climate.
West Antarctica was partially in the northern hemisphere, and during this period large amounts of flora remained.
Over time these swamps became deposits of coal in the Transantarctic Mountains.
Towards the end of the Permian period, continued warming led to a dry, hot climate over much of Gondwana.
As a result of continued warming, the polar ice caps melted and much of Gondwana became a desert.
The cooling of Antarctica occurred stepwise by the continental spread changing the oceanic currents from longitudinal equator-to-pole temperature-equalizing currents to latitudinal currents that preserved and accentuated latitude temperature differences.
Antarctica from Australia, and so the first ice began to appear.
Around 23&nbsp;mya, the Drake Passage opened between Antarctica and South America, which resulted in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current.
The ice spread, replacing the forests that then covered the continent.
The geological study of Antarctica has been greatly hindered by the fact that nearly all of the continent is permanently covered with a thick layer of ice.
However, new techniques such as remote sensing, ground-penetrating radar and satellite imagery have begun to reveal the structures beneath the ice.
Geologically, West Antarctica closely resembles the Andes mountain range of South America.
The Antarctic Peninsula was formed by uplift and metamorphism of sea bed sediments during the late Paleozoic and the early Mesozoic eras.
This sediment uplift was accompanied by igneous intrusions and volcanism.
The most common rocks in West Antarctica are andesite and rhyolite volcanics formed during the Jurassic period.
There is also evidence of volcanic activity, even after the ice sheet had formed, in Marie Byrd Land and Alexander Island.
The only anomalous area of West Antarctica is the Ellsworth Mountains region, where the stratigraphy is more similar to the eastern part of the continent.
East Antarctica is geologically very varied, dating from the faulting has occurred.
The main oil and natural gas fields found in the Ross Sea in 1973.
Exploitation of all mineral resources is banned until 2048 by the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty.
Antarctica is colder than the Arctic for two reasons.
First, much of the continent is more than 3 kilometers (2&nbsp;mi) above sea level, and temperature decreases with elevation.
Second, the Arctic Ocean covers the north polar zone: the ocean's relative warmth is transferred through the icepack and prevents temperatures in the Arctic regions from reaching the extremes typical of the land surface of Antarctica.
Given the latitude, long periods of constant darkness or constant sunlight create climates unfamiliar to human beings in much of the rest of the world.
The aurora australis, commonly known as the southern lights, is a glow observed in the night sky near the South Pole.
Another unique spectacle is diamond dust, a ground-level cloud composed of tiny ice crystals.
It generally forms under otherwise clear or nearly clear skies, so people sometimes also refer to it as clear-sky precipitation.
Antarctica has no permanent residents, but a number of governments maintain permanent research stations throughout the continent.
The number of people conducting and supporting scientific research and other work on the continent and its nearby islands varies from about 4,000 in summer to about 1,000 in winter.
Many of the stations are staffed year-round.
Managers and other senior officers of the whaling stations often lived together with their families.
Among them was the founder of Grytviken, Captain Carl Anton Larsen, a prominent Norwegian whaler and explorer who, along with his family, adopted British citizenship in 1910.
The climate of Antarctica does not allow extensive vegetation.
A combination of freezing temperatures, poor liverworts.
The autotrophic community is made up of mostly protists.
The flora of the continent largely consists of lichens, bryophytes, algae, and fungi.
Growth generally occurs in the summer, and only for a few weeks at most.
There are more than 200 species of lichens and about 50 species of bryophytes, such as mosses.
Seven hundred species of algae exist, most of which are phytoplankton.
Multicolored snow algae and diatoms are especially abundant in the coastal regions during the summer.
There are two species of flowering plants found in the Antarctic Peninsula: "Deschampsia antarctica" (Antarctic hair grass) and "Colobanthus quitensis" (Antarctic pearlwort).
A variety of marine animals exist and rely, directly or indirectly, on the phytoplankton.
The schools, is the keystone species of the ecosystem of the Southern Ocean, and is an important food organism for whales, seals, leopard seals, fur seals, squid, icefish, penguins, albatrosses and many other birds.
The passing of the tonnes (35,300&nbsp;short tons) in 2000.
Antarctica has no government and belongs to no country.
Various countries claim areas of it, although as a rule, no other countries recognize such claims.
Since 1959, claims on Antarctica have been suspended and the continent is considered politically neutral.
The Antarctic Treaty prohibits any Argentine military.
The United States military issues the Antarctica Service Medal to military members or civilians who perform research duty in Antarctica.
The medal includes a "wintered over" bar issued to those who remain on the continent for two complete six-month seasons.
The Argentine, British and Chilean claims all overlap.
Australia has the greatest claim of Antarctic territory.
Although coal, hydrocarbons, iron ore, platinum, copper, chromium, nickel, gold and other minerals have been found, they have not been in large enough quantities to exploit.
The 1991 Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty also restricts a struggle for resources.
In 1998, a compromise agreement was reached to place an indefinite ban on mining, to be reviewed in 2048, further limiting economic development and exploitation.
The primary agricultural activity is the capture and offshore trading of fish.
Transport on the continent has transformed from explorers crossing the isolated remote area of Antarctica on foot to a more open area due to human technologies enabling more convenient and faster transport by land and predominantly air and water.
Each year, scientists from 27 different nations conduct experiments not reproducible in any other place in the world.
In the summer more than 4,000 scientists operate research stations; this number decreases to nearly 1,000 in the winter.
Station is capable of housing more than 1,000 scientists, visitors, and tourists.
Researchers include neutrino telescope in the world, built 2 kilometers below Amundsen-Scott station.
Since the 1970s, an important focus of study has been the chlorofluorocarbons emitted by human products.
With the ban of CFCs in the Montreal Protocol of 1989, it is believed that the ozone hole will close up over the next fifty years.
On September 6, 2007, Belgian-based International Polar Foundation unveiled octagonal spaceship-like Princess Elisabeth station, the world's first zero-emissions polar science station in Antarctica to research on climate change.
Costing $16.3 million, the prefabricated station, which is part of International Polar Year will shipped to the South Pole from Belgium (to monitor the health of the polar regions, using icebreakers, satellites, stations and submarines).
This large collection of meteorites allows a better understanding of the abundance of meteorite types in the solar system and how meteorites relate to asteroids and comets.
New types of meteorites and rare meteorites have been found.
Among these are pieces blasted off the Moon, and probably Mars, by impacts.
These specimens, particularly ALH84001 discovered by ANSMET, are at the center of the controversy about possible evidence of microbial life on Mars.
Because meteorites in space absorb and record cosmic radiation, the time elapsed since the meteorite hit the Earth can be determined from laboratory studies.
The elapsed time since fall, or terrestrial residence age, of a meteorite represents more information that might be useful in environmental studies of Antarctic ice sheets.
Also, although having no obvious effect on the continent's environment, there is a large emission of chlorofluorocarbons or CFCs into the atmosphere, which decompose the ozone into other gasses.
For more on the ozone hole, see Ozone depletion.
Atlantic Ocean in the east and south.
Argentina has one of the highest newly industrialized economy classified as a developing country, currently classified as an upper-middle income country by the World Bank, or as a secondary emerging country.
The first Pilcomayo rivers finally reached the source only to find it already owned by explorers who reached it from Lima, the capital of the Viceroyalty of Peru.
The first signs of human presence in Argentina are located in the seventeenth century by the Mapuches.
European explorers arrived in 1516.
In 1818, General constitution promulgated in 1853.
Foreign immigration from Europe led to the adoption of modern agricultural techniques.
In the 1880s, the "Conquest of the Desert" subdued or exterminated the remaining indigenous tribes throughout the southern Pampas and Patagonia.
From 1880 to 1916, Argentina enjoyed increasing prosperity, prominence and became one of the top 10 richest countries in the world, through an agricultural export-led economy.
The population of the country swelled sevenfold.
Radicals, won control of the first free-elected government.
From the 1950s to 1970s, soft military and weak civilian administrations traded power.
During those years the economy grew strongly and poverty declined (to less than 7% in 1975).
Democracy was restored in 1983.
The members of the three military juntas were prosecuted and sentenced to life terms.
In two weeks, several presidents followed in quick succession, culminating in depreciation of the peso and a spike in inflation.
Argentina's political framework is a President of The Argentine Nation is both head of state and head of government, complemented by a pluriform multi-party system.
The judicial branches at the national and provincial level.
Senators serve six-year terms, with one-third standing for reelection every two years.
Members of the Chamber of Deputies are directly elected to four-year term via a system of proportional representation, with half of the members of the lower house being elected every two years.
A third of the candidates presented by the parties must be women.
The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
The Argentine Supreme Court of Justice has seven members who are appointed by the President in consultation with the Senate.
The rest of the judges are appointed by the Council of Magistrates of the Nation, a secretariat composed of representatives of judges, lawyers, the Congress, and the executive (see Law of Argentina).
Argentina is a member of an international bloc which has some legislative supranational functions.
Mercosur is composed of five full members: Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela.
It has five associate members without full voting rights: Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.
Argentina was the only country from January 1998.
In 2005, it was elected as a temporary member of the UN Security Council.
In 1993, Argentina launched the United Nations White Helmets indicative of humanitarian aid.
On As of 2006, Argentina has been emphasizing Mercosur as its first international priority; by contrast, during the 1990s, it relied more heavily on its relationship with the United States.
Argentina is a founding signatory and permanent consulting member of the Antarctic Treaty System and the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat is established in Buenos Aires.
Argentina's armed forces are controlled by the Defense Ministry, with the country's President as their Commander-in-Chief.
Historically, Argentina's military has been one of the best equipped in the region (for example, developing its own advanced jet fighters as early as the 1950s), but has faced expenditure cutbacks in comparison to other regional militaries.
The age of allowable military service is 18 years; there is no obligatory military service and currently no conscription.
The armed forces are composed of a traditional UN mandates.
Though declared the capital in 1853, Buenos Aires didn't become the capital of the country until 1880.
There have been moves to relocate the administrative centre elsewhere.
Argentina is nearly 3,700&nbsp;km long from north to south, and 1,400&nbsp;km from east to west (maximum values).
The highest point above La Pampa province.
The country has a territorial claim over a portion of a constant presence.
The plains west and south from San Luis also have plains (the Dry Pampa), but they are drier and used mainly for grazing.
Gran Chaco: The Santiago del Estero lies in the drier region of the Gran Chaco.
The land between the Misiones province is more tropical and belongs within the Brazilian Highlands geographic feature.
The region.
West-central Argentina is dominated by the imposing La Rioja province.
There are several large reservoirs created by dams.
Because of longitudinal and elevation amplitudes, Argentina is subject to a variety of climates.
As a rule, the subpolar in the far south.
The north of the country is characterized by very hot, humid summers with mild drier winters, and is subject to periodic droughts.
Central Argentina has hot summers with thunderstorms (in western Argentina producing some of the world's largest hail), and cool winters.
The southern regions have warm summers and cold winters with heavy snowfall, especially in mountainous zones.
Higher elevations at all latitudes experience cooler conditions.
The hottest and coldest San Juan, July 17 1972.
Major winds in Argentina include the cool km/h, fueling wildfires and causing damage.
The southern regions, particularly the far south, experience long periods of daylight from November to February (up to nineteen hours), and extended nights from May to August.
All of Argentina uses UTC-3 time zone.
The country does observe daylight saving time ocassionally, the last summertime being started at 0:00 December 30, 2007.
An agreement reached by Argentina and Uruguay in 1973 reaffirmed Argentine jurisdiction over the island, ending a century-old dispute.
Aquatic plants thrive in the wetlands dotting the region.
In the highest elevations (often above 4,000mts), no vegetation grows because of the extreme altitude, and the soils are virtually devoid of any plant life.
Many species live in the subtropical north.
Big cats like the jaguar, cougar, and ocelot; primates (howler monkey); large reptiles (crocodiles), and a species of caiman.
Other animals include the tapir, capybara, giant anteater, peccary, bush dog, raccoon, maned wolf, and various species of turtle and tortoise.
There are many birds, notably hummingbirds, flamingos, toucans, and parrots.
The western mountains are home to different animals.
The Hornero was elected the National Bird after a survey in 1928.
Argentina benefits from abundant industrial base.
The country is a newly industrialized economy that was once one of the wealthiest nations with a large middle class but this segment of the population has suffered by a succession of economic crises.
Argentina otherwise maintains a relatively high standard of living.
Argentina's economy started to slowly lose ground after 1945 when it went from a wealthy nation with a strong and prosperous economy to a deep recession in the mid 50s, losing its place in the position of prosperous industrialized nations.
The economy further declined during the military dictatorship that lasted from 1976 to 1983.
During this period, the government borrowed large loans with high interest rates from the IMF and private banking institutions.
The country engaged in a disorganized and corrupt rapid liberalization that marked the end of its industrial hegemony in Latin America.
During the military dictatorship over 400,000 companies of all sizes went bankrupt.
The economic decisions made from 1983 till 2001 failed to revert the situation.
Finally, in 2001, after 3 years of recession, the economy broke down and reached its worst point in history.
Although significant progress has occurred since then, the result is that, today, while a significant segment of the population is still financially well-off, they stand in sharp contrast with the millions who have seen their purchasing power drastically reduced.
Since 2002, there has been an improvement in the situation of the poorer sectors and a strong rebound of the middle class.
The urban poverty rate dropped to 26.9% by 2007, down from 48 percent observed in 2003, but is still above the level prior to the recession.
From the late 1970s the country piled up public debt and was plagued by bouts of high collapse in 2001.
By 2002, Argentina had floated.
However, careful spending control and heavy taxes on then-soaring exports allowed the state to regain resources and conduct monetary policy.
In 2003, import substitution policies and soaring exports, coupled with lower inflation and expansive economic measures, triggered a surge in the GDP.
This was repeated in 2004 and 2005, creating millions of jobs and encouraging internal consumption.
Capital flight decreased, and foreign investment slowly returned.
An influx of foreign currency from exports created a huge trade surplus.
The Central Bank was forced to buy dollars from the market, and continues to do so from time to time to prevent the Argentine peso from appreciating significantly and cutting competitiveness.
In 2007, commodities at 32% of exports.
Cattle is also a major industry.
Beef, milk, leather products, and cheese were 6% of total exports.
Sheep and wool industries are important in Patagonia, pigs and caprines elsewhere.
Industrial Rosario industrial belt.
Coal is also mined.
In Mesopotamia; elm for cellulose, pine and eucalyptus for furniture, timber, and paper products.
Both sectors each account for 2% of exports.
The service sector is the biggest contributor to total GDP.
Argentina produces energy in large part through well developed hydroelectric resources; nuclear energy is also of high importance.
The country is one of the largest producers and exporters (with Canada and Russia) of Cobalt-60, a radioactive isotope widely used in cancer therapy.
Construction has led employment creation in the current economic expansion, and is 5% of GDP.
Argentina's highway system is well-developed and paved roads reach all corners of the country.
There are nearly 640,000 kilometers of highways and roads (with many privatized roads as well).
Multilane highways now connect several main cities and more are now under construction.
The railway network was one of the largest in the world, at over 40,000 kilometers of tracks.
After decades of decaying service and lack of maintenance, most passenger services shut down in 1992 when the rail company was privatized, and thousands of kilometers of track are now in disrepair.
Railway services are currently being reactivated among several cities.
The country has around 3,000 kilometers of Paraguay rivers.
Argentina is a melting pot of different peoples, both autochthonous and immigrants.
Citizens of Amerindian mitochondrial DNA and Amerindian Y chromosome.
After the Spanish colonists, waves of European Welsh-descended population.
Small but growing numbers of people from East Asia have also settled Argentina, mainly in Buenos Aires.
The first Asian-Argentines were of Chinese followed, now at over 60,000.
Argentina has a large Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches.
Argentina's population is very highly urbanized.
About 3.53 million people live in the autonomous city of Rosario, comprise about 1.3 and 1.1 million inhabitants respectively.
Most European immigrants to Argentina settled in the cities, which offered jobs, education, and other opportunities that enabled newcomers to enter the middle class.
Many also settled in the growing small towns along the expanding railway system.
Since the 1930s, many rural workers have moved to the big cities.
Argentina's urban areas have a European look, reflecting the influence of European settlers.
The El Faro Towers, show the modern architecture for urbanization.
Argentine culture has been primarily informed and influenced by its European roots.
Argentina has a rich history of world-renowned literature, including one of the twentieth century's most critically acclaimed writers, Jorge Luis Borges.
The country has been a leader in Latin American literature since becoming a fully united entity in the 1850s, with a strong constitution and a defined nation-building plan.
The struggle between the Federalists (who favored a loose confederation of provinces based on rural conservatism) and the Unitarians (pro-liberalism and advocates of a strong central government that would encourage European immigration), set the tone for Argentine literature of the time.
Argentine literature of that period was fiercely nationalist.
Argentina is a major producer of Argentine cinema enjoyed a 'golden age' in the 1930s through the 1950s with scores of productions, many now considered classics of Spanish-language film.
The industry produced actors who became the first movie stars of Argentine cinema, often tango performers such as Libertad Lamarque, Floren Delbene, Tito Lusiardo, Tita Merello, Roberto Escalada, and Hugo del Carril.
The per capita number of screens is one of the highest in Latin America, and viewing per capita is the highest in the region.
A new generation of Argentine directors has caught the attention of critics worldwide.
Additionally, Argentina is a major center of cinema, it is compared to other European countries in terms of people who attend movie theaters.
An example of this was "Spider-Man 3" which took in 466,586 the first day a record in Argentina.
In Italy it took in 400,000 and Germany 486,571, breaking all records for first day release.
Buenos Aires is one of the great capitals of Mendoza.
Florencio Sanchez and Griselda Gambaro are famous Argentine playwrights.
Julio Bocca is one of the great ballet dancers of the modern era.
Also widespread are rugby union team, "Los Pumas" (see Argentina national rugby union team), with many of its players playing in Europe.
Argentine tennis is very competitive on the world stage, with dozens of players, male and female, in active tour.
Argentina beat France in the Rugby World Cup 2007, placing them third in the competition.
They beat France 34 - 10.
Argentine folk music is uniquely vast.
Beyond dozens of regional dances, a national folk style emerged in the 1930s.
Other notable musicians include Gato Barbieri with his seductive saxophone and free jazz compositions, and Jaime Torres and his spacious andean music.
Argentines are predominantly religious.
Around 93% declare themselves Roman Catholic according to different surveys; the Church estimates an affiliation of 70%.
According to the Constitution, the Argentine government should support Roman Catholicism.
However, this does not imply that it is the official religion of the Argentine Republic, nor does it imply that people working in the government should have this faith.
Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) number over 330,300, the seventh-largest concentration in the world, are also present.
The country also hosts the largest Jewish population in all of Latin America, about 2 percent of the population.
Approximately 7% of Argentines can be considered secular.
According to a survey, there are around 1,500,000 Japanese.
The usage of these languages is in decline, as the respective immigration waves ended in the first half of the 20th century.
Some indigenous communities have retained their Aymara is spoken by members of the Bolivian community who migrated to Argentina from Bolivia.
More recent immigrants have brought French are also spoken in smaller extents.
English is commonly taught at schools, with Portuguese and French behind.
Education is funded by tax payers at all levels except for the majority of graduate studies.
There are many private school institutions in the primary, secondary and university levels.
Education in public schools (primary, secondary and tertiary) is free.
Public holidays include most of the Catholic holidays, though holidays of other faiths are respected.
On Christmas Eve, the extended family gathers at 9 p.m. for dinner, music, and often dancing.
Candies are served just before midnight, when fireworks displays begin.
Argentina has contributed many distinguished doctors, scientists, and inventors to the world, including three Nobel Prize laureates in sciences.
Argentina's nuclear program is highly advanced.
Argentina developed its nuclear program without being overly dependent on foreign technology.
Nuclear facilities with Argentine technology have been built in Peru, Algeria, Australia, and Egypt.
In 1983, the country admitted having the capability of producing weapon-grade uranium, a major step to assemble nuclear weapons.
Since then Argentina has pledged to use nuclear power only for peaceful purposes.
The printed media in Argentina is highly developed and independent.
There are over two hundred "The Buenos Aires Herald" is a well-respected English language daily.
A number carry titles in English and other languages.
There are hundreds of magazine publications covering a plethora of issues and hobbies, which are sold in kiosks on city sidewalks and in bookstores.
Argentina was a pioneering nation in radio broadcasting.
The Argentine television industry is large and diverse, widely viewed in Latin America, and its productions seen around the world.
Many local programs are broadcast by networks in other countries, and others have their rights purchased by foreign producers for adaptations in their own markets.
Argentina has five major networks.
All provincial capitals and other large cities have at least one local station.
Argentina boasts the highest penetration of cable and satellite television in Latin America, similar to percentages in North America.
South Georgia to the northwest, Armenia to the west, and Iran to the south.
The Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan is bordered by Armenia to the north and east, Iran to the south and west, and Turkey to the northwest.
Azerbaijan's southwest have been controlled by Armenia since the end of the Nagorno-Karabakh War in 1994.
Azerbaijan has lost 16% of its territory and must support some 600,000 internally displaced persons as a result of the conflict.
Four United Nations Security Council Resolutions (822, 853, 874, and 884) called for "the withdrawal of occupying forces from occupied areas of the Azerbaijani Republic" The country's territory also embraces several islands in the Caspian Sea.
Azerbaijan, a nation with an unitary republic.
The country has been a co-founder of GUAM and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, and has been a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States since September 1993.
The country has a Permanent Mission to the European Union, hosts a Special Envoy of the European Commission and is a member of the United Nations, OSCE, Council of Europe, and the NATO Partnership for Peace (PfP) program.
Azerbaijan is divided into 59 Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic.
The local governments of regions and cities under Armenian occupation, such as Khankendi or Shusha, continue to function in exile.
The main water sources are the surface waters.
However, only 24 of the 8,350 rivers are greater than 100 km in length.
All the rivers drain into the Caspian Sea in the east of the country.
The largest lake is Kur (1,515 km), which is transboundary.
Azerbaijan's four main islands in the Caspian Sea have a combined area of over thirty square kilometers.
Azerbaijan has seen a host of inhabitants and invaders, including Russians.
The earliest evidence of human settlement in the territory of Azerbaijan dates to the late Azykh Cave.
The entire South Caucasus was conquered by the Rome, secessionist Greeks in Bactria and most adversely the Parthians.
Locally, the possessions of the subsequent Khagani Shirvani gave rise to a blossoming of Persian literature on the territory of present-day Azerbaijan.
The next ruling state of the Jalayirids was short-lived and fell under the conquests of Tamerlan.
The local dynasty of Shirvanshahs became a vassal state of Tamerlan's empire and assisted Tamerlan in his war with the ruler of the Golden Horde Tokhtamysh.
Following Tamerlan's death two independent and rival states emerged: Kara Koyunlu and Ak Koyunlu.
Until his death the Ak Koyunlu sultan Uzun Hasan ruled the whole territory now known as Azerbaijan.
Thereafter the Shirvanshahs maintained a high degree of autonomy as local rulers and vassals from 861 until 1539.
As the Shirvanshahs were persecuted by the Safavids, the last dynasty imposed Shia Islam upon the formerly Sunni population, battling against the Sunni Ottoman Empire.
Some time later, following the collapse of the Safavids, several independent Talysh khanate.
After the collapse of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (ADR).
The ADR was the first democratic parliamentary republic in the Muslim world, but lasted only 23 months until the Bolshevik XIth Red Army invaded in April 1920.
Overthrowing the ADR government, Bolsheviks established Azerbaijan SSR in Baku on April 28, 1920.
During the 1940s, the Azerbaijan SSR supplied much of the Soviet Union's oil on the Eastern Front of World War II.
Close to 600,000 Azerbaijanis fought on this front against Nazi Germany.
Operation Edelweiss was launched by Adolf Hitler to occupy the Caucasian oilfields and capture Baku, but all the offensives were pushed back.
The Germans made largely fruitless efforts to enlist the cooperation of emigre political figures, such as Mammed Amin Rasulzade, who came to Berlin and found opportunities to meet captured Soviet Azerbaijani POWs.
The disturbances in Azerbaijan, in response to Moscow's indifference to already heated conflict, resulted in calls for independence and secession from the USSR, which subsequently culminated in the events of Black January in Baku.
At this time, Ayaz Mutallibov was appointed as the First Secretary of the Azerbaijan Communist Party.
Later in 1990, the Supreme Council of the Azerbaijan SSR dropped the words "Soviet Socialist" from the title; adopted the Declaration of Sovereignty of the Azerbaijan Republic, a constituent member of Soviet Union; and restored the modified flag of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic as a state flag.
In early 1991, the Supreme Council of Azerbaijan established the office of the presidency.
Ayaz Mutallibov was subsquently elected as the first president by the Council.
On September 8, 1991, Ayaz Mutallibov was elected as president in nationwide elections in which he was the only candidate running.
On Aliyev, by the commander of the military police, Rovshan Javadov, was averted, resulting in the killing of the latter and disbanding of Azerbaijan's military police.
Although during his presidency, Aliyev managed to reduce the country's unemployment, reined in criminal groups, established the fundamental institutions of independent statehood, and brought stability, peace and major foreign investment, the country was tainted by rampant corruption in the governing bureaucracy.
In October 1998, Aliyev was reelected for a second term.
Despite the much improved economy, particularly with the exploitations of Prime Minister Ilham Aliyev, the second leader of New Azerbaijan Party after the death of his father Heydar.
The structural formation of Azerbaijan's political system was completed by the acceptance of the new state symbols of the Azerbaijan Republic are, according to the Article 23 of Constitution, the flag, the coat of arms and the national anthem.
The state power in Azerbaijan is limited only by law for internal issues, but for international affairs is additionally limited by the provisions of international agreements.
The government of Azerbaijan is based on the Economic Court.
The President nominates the judges in these courts.
The Security Council is the deliberative body under the president and he organizes it according to the Constitution.
It was established on April 10, 1997.
The administrative department is not a part of the president's office, but manages the financial, technical and pecuniary ensuring of activity of both the president and his office.
Azerbaijan is an active member of international coalitions fighting international terrorism.
The country is contributing to peacekeeping efforts in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq.
The Armed Forces of the Republic of Azerbaijan were created according to the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the Armed Forces of Azerbaijan of 09 October 1991.
The equipment and facilities of the Soviet Fourth Army were provided the main material source in first period.
The Armed Forces have three branches: Land Forces, Air Force and Air Defence Force (a united branch) and the Navy.
Besides the Armed Forces there are some additional forces, which are militarily organised and can be involved in state defence when needed.
Those are the Internal Troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and forces of the State Border Service, which includes Coastal Guard as well.
Azerbaijan adheres to the mln USD.
Azerbaijan is rich in macroeconomic stability, transparency in the management of oil revenue, and the safeguarding of resources for future generations.
Some part of most products before imported from abroad has begun to be produced locally (among them are Coca Cola by Coca Cola Bottlers LTD, beer by Baki-Kastel, parquet by Nehir and oil pipes by EUPEC Pipe Coating Azerbaijan).
Azerbaijan is also an important economic hub in terms of the raw materials transportation.
The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline (BTC) became operational in May 2006 and stretches over 1,774 kilometers through the territory of Azerbaijan (440 km), Georgia (260 km) and Turkey (1114 km).
The BTC is designed to transport up to 50 million tons of crude oil annually and carries oil from the Caspian Sea oilfields to global markets.
The South Caucasus Pipeline, also stretching through the territory of Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, became operational in the end of 2006 and offers additional gas supply to European market from the Shah Deniz gas field.
It is expected to produce up to 296 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year.
Azerbaijan also plays a major role in the EU-sponsored Silk Road Project.
The latest census of Udis - 0.05% and the others - 0.12%.
The languages distribution in that census roughly corresponds with the minority groups percentage.
In 2005 for instance 1,342 men and 1,564 women left the country due to labour migration.
According to official figures approximately 93.4% to 96% of the population is Hare Krishna and Jehovah's Witnesses communities.
Some of adherents are within the so-called Nehemiah Church, Star in the East Church and the Cathedral of Praise Church.
Some rural Azeri retain pre-Islamic animist beliefs, such as the sanctity of certain sites and the veneration of certain trees and rocks.
Azerbaijan folk consists of Azerbaijanis, the representative part of society, as well as of nations and ethnic groups, compactly living in various areas of the country.
There are radio broadcasts in Tat.
Among national musical instruments there are fourteen string instruments, eight percussion instruments and six wind instruments.
Azerbaijan will make its debut appearance at the Eurovision Song Contest 2008, an event that has previously been used to showcase other former Soviet and Eastern Bloc states.
Entries, submitted on the UNESCO World Heritage tentative list include the Gobustan State Reserve, the Fire Temple of Baku, the Momine Khatun Mausoleum and the Khan Palace in Sheki.
The amateur astronomer is one who does not depend on the field of astronomy as a primary source of income or support, and does not have a professional degree or advanced academic training.
Many amateurs are beginners, while others have a high degree in astronomy and often assist and work along side professional astronomers.
Amateur astronomy is usually associated with viewing the telescopes and binoculars.
People have studied the sky throughout history in an amateur framework, without any formal method of funding.
It is only within about the past century, however, that amateur astronomy has become an activity clearly distinguished from professional astronomy, and other related activities.
Collectively, amateur astronomers observe a variety of celestial objects and galaxies, and nebulae.
Many amateurs like to specialise in observing particular objects, types of objects, or types of events which interest them.
One branch of amateur astronomy, amateur astrophotography, involves the taking of photos of the night sky.
Astrophotography has become more popular for amateurs in recent times, as relatively sophisticated equipment such as high quality CCD cameras has become more affordable.
Most amateurs work at radio wavelengths in the 1930s, and interest has increased over time.
Non-visual amateur astronomy includes the use of infrared filters on conventional telescopes, and also the use of radio telescopes.
Some amateur astronomers use home-made radio telescopes, while others use radio telescopes that were originally built for astronomy research but have since been made available for use by amateurs.
The One-Mile Telescope is one such example.
Amateur astronomers use a range of custom telescope.
Some people even focus on amateur telescope making as their primary interest within the hobby of amateur astronomy.
Although specialised and experienced amateur astronomers tend to acquire more specialised and more powerful equipment, it's not unusual for relatively simple equipment to be preferred for certain tasks.
Binoculars, for instance, although generally of lower power than the majority of telescopes, also tend to provide a wider field of view, which is preferable for looking at some objects in the night sky.
Amateur astronomers also use star charts that, depending on experience and intentions, may range from simple planispheres through to detailed maps of very specific areas of the night sky.
A range of astronomy software is available and used by amateur astronomers, including software that generates maps of the sky, software to assist with astrophotography, and software to perform various calculations pertaining to astronomical phenomena.
Amateur astronomers often like to keep records of their observations, which may take the form of an observing log.
Observing logs typically record details about which objects were observed and when, as well as describing the details that were seen.
Sketching is sometimes used within logs, and photographic records of observations have also been used in recent times.
The internet is an essential tool of amateur astronomers.
Almost all astronomy clubs, even those with very few members, have a web site.
The popularity of CCD imaging amongst amateurs means large numbers of websites written by individuals about their images and equipment.
Much of the social interaction of amateur astronomy occurs on mailing lists or dicussion groups.
Yahoo groups, google groups host numerous astronomy lists.
Many methods are used in amateur astronomy to locate items in the sky, but most are variations of a few specific techniques.
Because of its simplicity, star hopping is a very common method for finding objects that are close to naked-eye stars.
More advanced methods of locating objects in the sky include "setting circles", which assist with pointing telescopes to positions in the sky that are known to contain objects of interest, and "GOTO telescopes", which are fully automated telescopes that are capable of locating objects on demand (having first been calibrated).
As with go-to telescopes, digital setting circle computers (commercial names include Argo Navis, Sky Commander, and NGC Max) actually contain databases of tens of thousands of celestial objects and projections of planet positions.
To find an object, such as globular cluster NGC 6712, one does not need to look up the RA and Dec coordinates in a book, and then move the telescope to those numerical readings.
Rather, the object is chosen from the database and arrow markers appear in the display which indicate the direction to move the telescope.
The telescope is moved until the distance value reaches zero.
When both the RA and Dec axes are thus "zeroed out," the object should be in the eyepiece.
The user therefore does not have to go back and forth from some other database (such as a book or laptop) to match the desired object's listed coordinates to the coordinates on the telescope.
However, many dscs, and also go-to systems, can work in conjunction with laptop sky programs.
Computerized systems provide the further advantage of computing coordinate precession.
With these computer-driven telescopes, the user typically enters the name of the item of interest and the mechanics of the telescope point the telescope towards that item automatically.
They have several notable advantages for amateur astronomers intent on research.
For example, GOTO telescopes tend to be faster for locating items of interest than star hopping, allowing more time for studying of the object.
On the other hand, the necessary complex electronics and mounting systems add an element of cost that could otherwise be utilized for higher quality optics.
About ten years ago there was some debate, usually light-hearted, within the amateur astronomy community about which method is superior.
Star hopping involves the use of printed media that is dependent on computer generated sources.
The user prints out star maps at home or uses books, atlases, and magazine articles that have computer generated graphics in them to aid in the quest to find an object.
They may be preferred by people who are more serious about studying objects, because less time and effort are required for finding objects when they are well prepared.
But digital setting circle or go-to systems also provide touring functions whereby the user can set parameters such as robotic systems that would point the telescope while the operator could stay seated and set imaging parameters.
All told the market for amateur equipment has moved decisively in the direction of some form of computerized finding assistance.
Nonetheless, the unalloyed pleasure and simplicity of a non-computerized telescope continues to have its appeal, and many observers take pleasure in surveying the heavens without electronic guidance.
The majority of scientific contributions by amateur astronomers are in the area of data collection.
In particular, this applies where large numbers of amateur astronomers with small telescopes are more effective than the relatively small number of large telescopes that are available to professional astronomers.
Amateur astronomers often contribute toward activities such as monitoring the changes in brightness of variable stars, helping to track asteroids, and observing occultations to determine both the shape of asteroids and the shape of the terrain on the apparent edge of the Moon as seen from Earth.
With more advanced equipment, but still cheap in comparison to professional setups, amateur astronomers can measure the light spectrum emitted from astronomical objects, which can yield high-quality scientific data if the measurements are performed with due care.
There are a large number of amateur astronomical societies around the world that serve as a meeting point for those interested in amateur astronomy, whether they be people who are actively interested in observing or "armchair astronomers" who may be simply interested in the topic.
Societies range widely in their goals, depending on a variety of factors such as geographic spread, local circumstances, size and membership.
For instance, a local society in the middle of a large city may have regular meetings with speakers, focusing less on observing the night sky if the membership is less able to observe due to factors such as light pollution.
It is common for local societies to hold regular meetings, which may include activities such as star parties or presentations.
Societies are also a meeting point for people with particular interests, such as amateur telescope making.
An aikido throw being practiced.
In addition to the effect on his spiritual growth, the connection with Deguchi gave Ueshiba entry to elite political and military circles as a martial artist.
As a result of this exposure, he was able to attract not only financial backing but also gifted students.
The biggest aikido organisation is the Aikikai Foundation which remains under the control of the Ueshiba family.
However, aikido has many styles, mostly formed by Morihei Ueshiba's major students.
A final major style evolved from Ueshiba's retirement in Iwama, Ibaraki, and the teaching methodology of long term student Morihiro Saito.
It is unofficially referred to as the "Iwama style", and at one point a number of its followers formed a loose network of schools they called Iwama Ryu.
Although Iwama style practitioners remained part of the Aikikai until Saito's death in 2002, followers of Saito subsequently split into two groups; one remaining with the Aikikai and the other forming the independent organization the Shinshin Aikishuren Kai, in 2004 around Saito's son Hitohiro Saito.
Physical training goals pursued in conjunction with aikido include controlled relaxation, flexibility, and endurance, with less emphasis on strength training.
In aikido technique, pushing or extending movements are much more common than pulling or contracting movements found in other arts, and this distinction can be applied to general fitness goals for the aikido practitioner.
Both halves of the technique, that of "uke" and that of "nage", are considered essential to aikido training.
Both are studying aikido principles of blending and adaptation.
Aikido techniques are usually a defense against an attack; therefore, to practice aikido with their partner, students must learn to deliver various types of attacks.
Beginners in particular often practice techniques from grabs, both because they are safer and because it is easier to feel the energy and lines of force of a hold than a strike.
Some grabs are historically derived from being held while trying to draw a weapon; a technique could then be used to free oneself and immobilize or strike the attacker who is grabbing the defender.
Thus, from fewer than twenty basic techniques, there are thousands of possible implementations.
One feature of aikido is training to defend oneself against multiple attackers.
Injuries (especially those to the joints), when they do occur in aikido, are often the result of "nage" misjudging the ability of "uke" to receive the throw or pin.
The most common criticism of aikido is that it suffers from a lack of realism in training.
This generalized observation manifests in several different facets of practice.
Another criticism, related to the first, is that after the end of Ueshiba's seclusion in Iwama from 1942 to the mid 1950s, he increasingly emphasized the spiritual and philosophical aspects of the arts.
Alternately, there are some who criticize aikido practitioners for not placing enough importance on the spiritual practices emphasized by Ueshiba.
Please see Talk concerning Styles and External Links.
Entries should not act as a list of individual or dojo clusters.
The length of such a list would be very long.
If you disagree please discuss in Talk.
Please see Talk concerning Styles and External Links.
Entries should not act as a list of individual or dojo clusters.
The length of such a list would be very long.
If you disagree please discuss in Talk.
It is most often used to refer specifically to the visual arts, including mediums such as painting, sculpture, and printmaking.
However it can also be applied to forms of art that stimulate the other senses, such as music, an auditory art.
Aesthetics is the branch of philosophy which considers art.
Visual art is defined as the arrangement of colors, forms, or other elements "in a manner that affects the sense of beauty, specifically the production of the beautiful in a graphic or plastic medium".
The nature of art has been described by representation.
Leo Tolstoy identified art as a use of indirect means to communicate from one person to another.
Generally art is a (product of) human activity, made with the intention of stimulating the human senses as well as the human mind; by transmitting emotions and/or ideas.
The evaluation of art has become especially problematic since the 20th century.
Wollheim distinguishes three approaches: the position, whereby it is not an absolute value, but depends on, and varies with, the human experience of different humans.
An object may be characterized by the intentions, or lack thereof, of its creator, regardless of its apparent purpose.
A cup, which ostensibly can be used as a container, may be considered art if intended solely as an ornament, while a painting may be deemed craft if mass-produced.
The first and broadest sense of "art" is the one that has remained closest to the older Latin meaning, which roughly translates to "skill" or "craft," and also from an medical arts", and "military arts".
However, there are many other colloquial uses of the word, all with some relation to its etymology.
The ultimate derivation of "fine" in "fine art" comes from the philosophy of Aristotle, who proposed four "causes" or explanations of a thing.
The final cause of a thing is the purpose for its existence, and the term "fine art" is derived from this notion.
The closely related concept of beauty is classically defined as "that which when seen, pleases".
Pleasure is the final cause of beauty and thus is not a means to another end, but an end in itself.
Art is something that stimulates an individual's thoughts, emotions, beliefs, or ideas through the senses.
It is also an expression of an idea and it can take many different forms and serve many different purposes.
Old Masters as negative factors that could be acknowledged only implicitly or indirectly.
Though only originally intended as a way of understanding a specific set of artists, this definition of Modern Art underlies most of the ideas of art within the various art movements of the 20th century and early 21st century.
The art of Marcel Duchamp becomes clear when seen within this context; when submitting a urinal, titled fountain, to the Society of Independent Artists exhibit in 1917 he was critiquing the art exhibition using its own methods.
One of the defining characteristics of fine art as opposed to applied art is the absence of any clear usefulness or utilitarian value.
However, this requirement is sometimes criticized as being class prejudice against labor and utility.
It is also sometimes argued that even seemingly non-useful art is not useless, but rather that its use is the effect it has on the psyche of the creator or viewer.
Art is also used by art therapists, psychotherapists and clinical psychologists as art therapy.
Art can also be used as a tool of Personality Test.
The end product is not the principal goal in this case, but rather a process of healing, through creative acts, is sought.
The resultant piece of artwork may also offer insight into the troubles experienced by the subject and may suggest suitable approaches to be used in more conventional forms of psychiatric therapy.
In a social context, art can serve to boost the public's morale.
Art is often utilized as a form of propaganda, and thus can be used to subtly influence popular conceptions or mood.
In some cases, artworks are appropriated to be used in this manner, without the creator having initially intended the art to be used as propaganda.
From a more anthropological perspective, art is often a way of passing ideas and concepts on to later generations in a (somewhat) universal language.
Conceptual art often intentionally pushes the boundaries of what counts as art and a number of recent conceptual artists, such as Damien Hirst and Tracy Emin have produced works about which there are active disputes.
Video games and role-playing games are both fields where some recent critics have asserted that they do count as art, and some have asserted that they do not.
Philosopher David Novitz has argued that disagreement about the definition of art are rarely the heart of the problem.
Rather, "the passionate concerns and interests that humans vest in their social life" are "so much a part of all classificatory disputes about art" (Novitz, 1996).
According to Novitz, classificatory disputes are more often disputes about our values and where we are trying to go with our society than they are about theory proper.
In the Christ's sacrifice and final suffering, submerged in a glass of the artist's own urine.
The resulting uproar led to comments in the United States Senate about public funding of the arts.
In the twenty-first century, Eric Fischl created "Tumbling Woman" as a memorial to those who jumped or fell to their death in the attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.
Initially installed at Rockefeller Center in New York City, within a year the work was removed as too disturbing.
Art has been perceived by some as belonging to some social classes and often excluding others.
In this context, art is seen as an upper-class activity associated with wealth, the ability to purchase art, and the leisure required to pursue or enjoy it.
There has been a cultural push in the other direction since at least 1793, when the Louvre, which had been a private palace of the Kings of France, was opened to the public as an art museum during the French Revolution.
Most modern public museums and art education programs for children in schools can be traced back to this impulse to have art available to everyone.
There have been attempts by artists to create art that can not be bought by the wealthy as a status object.
One of the prime original motivators of much of the art of the late 1960s and 1970s was to create art that could not be bought and sold.
It is "necessary to present something more than mere objects" said the major post war German artist Joseph Beuys.
This time period saw the rise of such things as performance art, video art, and conceptual art.
The idea was that if the artwork was a performance that would leave nothing behind, or was simply an idea, it could not be bought and sold.
Artists broadly identified under the heading of Conceptual art.
The creative arts are often divided into more specific categories, such as decorative arts, plastic arts, performing arts, or literature.
So for example painting is a form of visual art, and poetry is a form of literature.
This is not intended to be a complete list - please do not add minor categories.
For instance, well recognized genres in film, for example, are pastorial landscape.
These are all ways of beginning to define a work of art, to narrow it down.
How would you proceed with your task?
One way to begin is to examine the materials each artist selected in making an object, image video, or event.
The decision to cast a sculpture in bronze, for instance, inevitably effects its meaning; the work becomes something different than if it had been cast in gold or plastic or chocolate, even if everything else about the artwork remained the same.
Next, you might examine how the materials in each artwork have become an arrangement of shapes, colors, textures, and lines.
These, in turn, are organized into various patterns and compositional structures.
In your interpretation, you would comment on how salient features of the form contribute to the overall meaning of the finished artwork.
Art predates history; sculptures, cave paintings, rock paintings, and petroglyphs from the Upper Paleolithic starting roughly 40,000 years ago have been found, but the precise meaning of such art is often disputed because so little is known about the cultures that produced them.
The oldest art objects in the world: a series of tiny, drilled snail shells about 75,000yrs old, were discovered in a South African cave, see Art of South Africa.
The great traditions in art have a foundation in the art of one of the great ancient civilizations: Rome or Arabia (ancient Yemen and Oman).
Each of these centers of early civilization developed a unique and characteristic style in their art.
Because of the size and duration these civilizations, more of their art works have survived and more of their influence has been transmitted to other cultures and later times.
They have also provided the first records of how artists worked.
The western Renaissance saw a return to valuation of the material world, and the place of humans in it, and this paradigm shift is reflected in art forms, which show the corporeality of the human body, and the three dimensional reality of landscape.
In the east, architecture.
Further east, religion dominated artistic styles and forms too.
India and Tibet saw emphasis on painted sculptures and dance with religious painting borrowing many conventions from sculpture and tending to bright contrasting colors with emphasis on outlines.
China saw many art forms flourish, jade carving, bronzework, pottery (including the stunning terracotta army of Emperor Qin), poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, fiction, etc.
Chinese styles vary greatly from era to era and are traditionally named after the ruling dynasty.
So, for example, Tang Dynasty paintings are monochromatic and sparse, emphasizing idealized landscapes, but Ming Dynasty paintings are busy, colorful, and focus on telling stories via setting and composition.
Japan names its styles after imperial dynasties too, and also saw much interplay between the styles of calligraphy and painting.
Woodblock printing became important in Japan after the 17th century.
The western Romantic rejections of this in favor of pictures of the emotional side and individuality of humans, exemplified in the novels of Goethe.
The late 19th century then saw a host of artistic movements, such as academic art, symbolism, impressionism and fauvism among others.
By the 20th century these pictures were falling apart, shattered not only by new discoveries of relativity by Einstein and of unseen psychology by Freud, but also by unprecedented technological development accelerated by the implosion of civilisation in two world wars.
The history of twentieth century art is a narrative of endless possibilities and the search for new standards, each being torn down in succession by the next.
Thus the parameters of African sculpture.
Japanese woodblock prints (which had themselves been influenced by Western Renaissance draftsmanship) had an immense influence on Impressionism and subsequent development.
Then African sculptures were taken up by Picasso and to some extent by Matisse.
Similarly, the west has had huge impacts on Eastern art in 19th and 20th century, with originally western ideas like Communism and Post-Modernism exerting powerful influence on artistic styles.
Modernism, the idealistic search for truth, gave way in the latter half of the 20th century to a realization of its unattainability.
Relativity was accepted as an unavoidable truth, which led to the period of postmodern criticism, where cultures of the world and of history are seen as changing forms, which can be appreciated and drawn from only with irony.
Furthermore the separation of cultures is increasingly blurred and some argue it is now more appropriate to think in terms of a global culture, rather than regional cultures.
Art tends to facilitate intuitive rather than rational understanding, and is usually consciously created with this intention.
Fine art intentionally serves no other purpose.
As a result of this impetus, works of art are elusive, refractive to attempts at classification, because they can be appreciated in more than one way, and are often susceptible to many different interpretations.
For example, in the case of Gericault's "Raft of the Medusa", special knowledge concerning the shipwreck that the painting depicts is not a prerequisite to appreciating it, but allows the appreciation of Gericault's political intentions in the piece.
Even art that superficially depicts a mundane event or object, may invite reflection upon elevated themes.
Traditionally, the highest achievements of art demonstrate a high level of ability or fluency within a medium.
This characteristic might be considered a point of contention, since many modern artists (most notably, conceptual artists) do not themselves create the works they conceive, or do not even create the work in a conventional, demonstrative sense, for instance, Tracey Emin's My Bed.
Art has a transformative capacity: confers particularly appealing or aesthetically satisfying structures or forms upon an original set of unrelated, passive constituents.
Basically, art is an act of expressing our feelings, thoughts, and observations.
There is an understanding that is reached with the material as a result of handling it, which facilitates one's thought processes.
Making judgments of value requires a basis for criticism.
Though perception is always colored by experience, and is necessarily subjective, it is commonly taken that - that which is not aesthetically satisfying in some fashion cannot be art.
In other words, an artist's prime motivation need not be the pursuit of the aesthetic.
Also, art often depicts terrible images made for social, moral, or thought-provoking reasons.
For example, Francisco Goya's painting depicting the Spanish shootings of 3rd of May 1808, is a graphic depiction of a firing squad executing several pleading civilians.
Yet at the same time, the horrific imagery demonstrates Goya's keen artistic ability in composition and execution and produces fitting social and political outrage.
Thus, the debate continues as to what mode of aesthetic satisfaction, if any, is required to define 'art'.
The assumption of new values or the rebellion against accepted notions of what is aesthetically superior need not occur concurrently with a complete abandonment of the pursuit of that which is aesthetically appealing.
Indeed, the reverse is often true, that in the revision of what is popularly conceived of as being aesthetically appealing, allows for a re-invigoration of aesthetic sensibility, and a new appreciation for the standards of art itself.
Art appeals to many of the human emotions.
Effective art often brings about some new insight concerning the human condition either singly or en-mass, which is not necessarily always positive, or necessarily widens the boundaries of collective human ability.
The degree of skill that the artist has, will affect their ability to trigger an emotional response and thereby provide new insights, the ability to manipulate them at will shows exemplary skill and determination.
Do not place advertisements here.
Wikipedia is not a link directory.
Consider submitting your link to DMOZ instead.
Do not place advertisements here.
Wikipedia is not a link directory.
Consider submitting your link to DMOZ instead.
The word "actor" refers to one who acts, whilst "actress" refers specifically to a female who acts.
The English word "actress" does not derive from the Latin "actrix", probably not even by way of French "actrice"; according to the Oxford English Dictionary, "actress" was "probably formed independently" in English.
The Oxford English Dictionary also points out that originally "'actor' was used for both sexes".
This gender-neutral usage has re-emerged in modern English.
As "actress" is a specifically feminine word, some feminist groups assert that the word "actress" is sexist.
It was commonly used in film in the early days of the Production Code, but is now generally deemed archaic.
However, it remains in use in the theatre, often incorporated into the name of a theatre group or company (such as the East West Players).
Theatrical legend to this day maintains that Thespis exists as a mischievous spirit, and disasters in the theatre are sometimes blamed on his ghostly intervention.
Actors were traditionally not people of high status, and in the Early Middle Ages travelling acting troupes were often viewed with distrust.
In many parts of Europe, actors could not even receive a Christian burial, and traditional beliefs of the region and time period held that this left any actor forever condemned.
However, this negative perception was largely reversed in the 19th and 20th centuries as acting has become an honored and popular profession and art.
In the past, only men could become actors in some societies.
In the ancient Greece and Rome and the Charles II who enjoyed watching female actors (actresses) on stage.
Acting and actresses employ a variety of techniques that are learned through training and experience.
Some of these are: # The rigorous use of the voice to communicate a character's lines and express emotion.
This is achieved through attention to diction and projection through correct breathing and articulation.
The English critic Benedict Nightingale discussed and compared great classical actors of the long dead past, and the present, and their magical effects upon audiences, in this 1983 article from the New York Times, available online.
Historically, acting was considered a man's profession; so, in Dryden in 1700.
Today, women sometimes play the roles of Cherubino in "The Marriage of Figaro".
Having an actor play the opposite sex for comic effect is also a long standing tradition in comic theatre and film.
Most of Shakespeare's comedies include instances of 2007 movie musical.
These small trilobites first appeared toward the end of the Early Cambrian and thrived in the Middle Cambrian.
They are present in the lower Cambrian fossil record along with trilobites from Orders Redlichiida, Corynexochida, and Ptychopariida.
The last agnostids went extinct in the Late Ordovician.
The Agnostida are divided into two suborders -- pygidia" (tails) that are so similar in size and shape to their "cephalons" (heads) that it is difficult to distinguish which end is which.
Most agnostid species were eyeless.
The systematic position of Order Agnostida within Class Trilobita remains uncertain, and there has been continuing debate whether they are trilobites or a stem group.
The challenge to the status has focused on the Agnostina partly because juveniles of one genus have been found with legs greatly different from those of adult trilobites, suggesting they are separately descended from Crustaceans.
Other researchers have suggested, based on cladistic analyses, that Eodiscina and Agnostida are closely united, and that the Eodiscina descended from the trilobite Order Ptychopariida.
Scientists have long debated whether the agnostids lived a ostracodan-type lifestyle.
Furthermore, the orientation of the thoracic appendages appears ill suited for benthic living.
Agnostina are generally referred to simply as "agnostids" even though they probably should be called "agnostines".
This is a product of extensive discussion between many Wikipedians.
This article has a long and intense history of terminology debates.
Please review the talk page before making changes to lines to see if there is a previous established consensus or compromise.
However, in medical texts, the word 'abortion' might exclusively refer to, or may also refer to, "spontaneous abortion" (miscarriage).
The incidence and reasons for induced abortion vary regionally.
It has been estimated that approximately 46 million abortions are performed worldwide every year.
Of these, 26 million are said to occur in places where abortion is legal; the other 20 million happen where the procedure is illegal.
The Guttmacher Institute estimated there were 2,200 intact dilation and extraction procedures in the U.S. during 2000; this accounts for 0.17% of the total number of abortions performed that year.
Similarly, in England and Wales in 2006, 89% of terminations occurred at or under 12 weeks, 9% between 13 to 19 weeks, and 1.5% at or over 20 weeks.
A 1998 aggregated study, from 27 countries, on the reasons women seek to terminate their pregnancies concluded that common factors cited to have influenced the abortion decision were: desire to delay or end contraception at the time of becoming pregnant while 46% were not.
Inconsistent use was reported by 49% of those using condoms and 76% of those using the combined oral contraceptive pill; 42% of those using condoms reported failure through slipping or breakage.
In the United Kingdom, a 1994 survey of sexual behavior found that women who reported having an abortion were more likely to be of a higher social class, as well as either cohabitating or divorced.
It also found that women who stated they have had 10 or more sexual partners in their lifetime were five times more likely to have had an abortion than those who stated they have had only one sexual partner.
Some abortions are undergone as the result of societal pressures.
These factors can sometimes result in compulsory abortion or sex-selective abortion.
In many areas, especially in social issues for more information on these subjects.
Premature births and stillbirths are generally not considered to be miscarriages although usage of these terms can sometimes overlap.
Most miscarriages occur very early in pregnancy.
Between 10% and 50% of pregnancies end in miscarriage, depending upon the age and health of the pregnant woman.
In most cases, they occur so early in the pregnancy that the woman is not even aware that she was pregnant.
The risk of spontaneous abortion decreases sharply after the 8th week.
A pregnancy can be intentionally aborted in many ways.
The manner selected depends chiefly upon the gestational age of the embryo or fetus, in addition to the legality, regional availability, and doctor-patient preference for specific procedures.
In the first 12 weeks, suction-aspiration or vacuum abortion is the most common method.
These techniques are comparable, and differ in the mechanism used to apply suction, how early in pregnancy they can be used, and whether cervical dilation is necessary.
Surgical techniques are sometimes referred to as 'Suction (or surgical) Termination Of Pregnancy' (STOP).
From the 15th week until approximately the 26th, dilation and evacuation (D&E) is used.
The World Health Organization recommends this procedure, also called "sharp curettage," only when MVA is unavailable.
The term "D and C", or sometimes "suction curette", is used as a euphemism for the first trimester abortion procedure, whichever the method used.
Other techniques must be used to induce abortion in the third federally banned in the United States.
A hysterotomy abortion is a procedure similar to a caesarean section, and is performed under general anesthesia because it is considered major abdominal surgery.
It requires a smaller incision than a caesarean section and is used during later stages of pregnancy.
Effective in the first trimester of pregnancy, medical (non-surgical) abortions comprise 10% of all abortions in the United States and Europe.
Abortion is sometimes attempted by causing trauma to the Burma, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand, there is an ancient tradition of attempting abortion through forceful abdominal massage.
Reported methods of unsafe, self-induced abortion include misuse of misoprostol, and insertion of non-surgical implements such as knitting needles and clothes hangers into the uterus.
These methods are rarely seen in developed countries where surgical abortion is legal and available.
Assessing the risks of induced abortion depends on a number of factors.
In the United Kingdom, the number of deaths directly due to legal abortion between the years of 1991 and 1993 was 5, compared to 3 deaths following spontaneous miscarriage and 8 deaths caused by ectopic pregnancy during the same time frame.
In the United States, during the year 1999, there were 4 deaths due to legal abortion, 10 due to miscarriage, and 525 due to pregnancy-related reasons.
Women experience pain, usually minor, during first-trimester abortion procedures.
In a 1979 study of 2,299 patients, 97% reported experiencing some degree of pain.
Patients rated the pain as being less than earache or toothache, but more than headache or backache.
Youngest patients experienced the most pain; oldest, the least.
Some practitioners advocate using minimal anaesthesia so the patient can alert them to possible complications.
Others recommend general anaesthesia, to prevent patient movement, which might cause a perforation.
General anaesthesia carries its own risks, including death, which is why public health officials recommend against its routine use.
In rare cases, abortion will be unsuccessful and pregnancy will continue.
An unsuccessful abortion can result in delivery of a live infant.
This, termed a failed abortion, can occur only late in pregnancy.
Some doctors have voiced concerns about the ethical and legal ramifications of letting the infant die.
A preliminary report from this investigation indicated that at least 50 babies a year are born in the UK following failed abortions after 18 weeks of gestation.
There is controversy over a number of proposed risks and effects of abortion.
Arguments, whether in support of or against such claims, may be influenced by the political and ideological beliefs of the parties behind it.
Though the hypothesis has been largely rejected, the ongoing promotion of the abortion-breast cancer hypothesis by political but some scientific debate.
A number of studies have concluded that abortion has positive or neutral effects on women.
Others have found a correlation between clinical depression, anxiety, suicidal behaviors, or adverse effects on women's sexual functions and abortion.
Various factors, such as emotional attachment to the pregnancy, lack of support, and conservative views on abortions, may increase the likelihood of experiencing such feelings.
No studies have established a causal relationship between abortion and negative psychological symptoms experienced by women.
Induced abortion can be traced to ancient times.
There is evidence to suggest that, historically, pregnancies were terminated through a number of methods, including the administration of abortifacient herbs, the use of sharpened implements, the application of abdominal pressure, and other techniques.
The side effects that have at times been used to terminate pregnancy.
Abortion in the 19th century continued, despite bans in both the United Kingdom and the United States, as the disguised, but nonetheless open, advertisement of services in the Victorian era suggests.
A number of complex issues exist in the debate over abortion.
These, like the suggested effects upon health listed above, are a focus of research and a fixture of discussion among members on all sides of the controversy.
A theory attempts to draw a correlation between the United States' unprecedented nationwide decline of the overall crime rate during the 1990s and the decriminalization of abortion 20 years prior.
The suggestion was brought to widespread attention by a 1999 single.
Fellow economists Christopher Foote and Christopher Goetz criticized the methodology in the Donohue-Levitt study, noting a lack of accommodation for statewide yearly variations such as cocaine use, and recalculating based on incidence of crime per capita; they found no statistically significant results.
Levitt and Donohue responded to this by presenting an adjusted data set which took into account these concerns and reported that the data maintained the statistical significance of their initial paper.
Such research has been criticized by some as being socioeconomic class, and as promoting eugenics as a solution to crime.
The existence or absence of fetal sensation during abortion is a matter of medical, ethical and public policy interest.
Evidence conflicts, with several physicians holding that the fetus is capable of feeling neuro-anatomical requirements for such experience do not exist until the 29th week of gestation.
Researchers have observed changes in heart rates and physiological, cannot be measured in such reflexive responses.
The advent of both sex-selective abortion or the targeted termination of a fetus based upon its sex.
It is suggested that sex-selective abortion might be partially responsible for the noticeable disparities between the Taiwan, South Korea, and India.
In cultural preference for sons.
In the People's Republic of China, there is also a historic son preference.
The implementation of the one-child policy in 1979, in response to population concerns, led to an increased disparity in the sex ratio as parents attempted to circumvent the law through sex-selective abortion or the abandonment of unwanted daughters.
Sex-selective abortion might be an influence on the shift from the baseline male-to-female birth rate to an elevated national rate of 117:100 reported in 2002.
The trend was more pronounced in rural regions: as high as 130:100 in Guangdong and 135:100 in Hainan.
A ban upon the practice of sex-selective abortion was enacted in 2003.
Where and when access to safe abortion has been barred, due to explicit sanctions or general unavailability, women seeking to terminate their pregnancies have sometimes resorted to unsafe methods.
The the woman herself.
Unsafe abortion remains a maternal mortalities, with regional estimates including 12% in Asia, 25% in Latin America, and 13% in sub-Saharan Africa.
A 2007 study published in the "The Lancet" found that, although the global rate of abortion declined from 45.6 million in 1995 to 41.6 million in 2003, unsafe procedures still accounted for 48% of all abortions performed in 2003.
Health education, access to family planning, and improvements in health care during and after abortion have been proposed to address this phenomenon.
Over the course of the Religious ethics also has an influence upon both personal opinion and the greater debate over abortion (see religion and abortion).
Abortion debates, especially pertaining to advocacy groups belonging to one of two camps.
In the United States, most often those in favor of legal prohibition of abortion describe themselves as pro-life while those against legal restrictions on abortion describe themselves as pro-choice.
In both public and private debate, arguments presented in favor of or against abortion focus on either the moral permissibility of an induced abortion, or justification of laws permitting or restricting abortion.
Arguments on morality and legality tend to collide and combine, complicating the issue at hand.
Debate also focuses on whether the common-law wife, her husband; or a pregnant woman, the biological father.
In a 2003 Gallup poll in the United States, 79% of male and 67% of female respondents were in favor of spousal notification; overall support was 72% with 26% opposed.
A number of opinion polls around the world have explored public opinion regarding the issue of abortion.
Results have varied from poll to poll, country to country, and region to region, while varying with regard to different aspects of the issue.
A May 2005 survey examined attitudes toward abortion in 10 European countries, asking polltakers whether they agreed with the statement, "If a woman doesn't want children, she should be allowed to have an abortion".
The highest level of approval was 81% in the Czech Republic and the highest level of disapproval was 48% in Poland.
A November 2005 poll in Mexico found that 73.4% think abortion should not be legalized while 11.2% think it should.
A July 2005 poll in Colombia found that 65.6% said they thought that abortion should remain illegal, 26.9% that it should be made legal, and 7.5% that they were unsure.
Before the scientific discovery that human development begins at fertilization, Constitution in 1983 by popular referendum, recognizing "the right to life of the unborn".
Current laws pertaining to abortion are diverse.
Religious, moral, and cultural sensibilities continue to influence abortion laws throughout the world.
The right to life, the right to liberty, and the right to security of person are major issues of human rights that are sometimes used as justification for the existence or absence of laws controlling abortion.
Other countries, in which abortion is normally illegal, will allow one to be performed in the case of Chilean government began the free distribution of emergency contraception.
In Bangladesh, abortion is illegal, but the government has long supported a network of "menstrual regulation clinics", where menstrual extraction (manual vacuum aspiration) can be performed as menstrual hygiene.
The Abstract of Title, used in wills, mortgages, and other documents that affect ownership of the property.
An abstract describes a chain of transfers from owner to owner and any agreements by former owners that are binding on later owners.
A Clear Title to property is one that clearly states any obligation in the deed to the property.
It reveals no breaks in the chain of legal ownership.
After the records of the property have been traced and the title has been found clear, it is sometimes guaranteed, or insured.
In a few states, a more efficient system of insuring title real properties provides for registration of a clear title with public authorities.
After this is accomplished, no abstract of title is necessary.
Under United States patent law, the abstract may be called "Abstract of the Disclosure".
This is often done in advance of the update of reporting databases and/or the issuance of official documents.
Alda contracted Sister Elizabeth Kenny, where hot woolen blankets were applied to the limbs and the muscles were stretched by massage.
This treatment, though brutal, allowed Alda to recover much movement.
Alda was a member of the Compass Players in the late 1950s.
He has also been an activist for feminism for many years.
Alda has been a longtime resident of Leonia, New Jersey.
Alda began his career in the 1950s as a member of the Broadway, where he was nominated for the Tony award as Best Actor in a Musical.
Ruby Dee and her husband, the late Ossie Davis.
Other film roles would follow, such as his portrayal of the now late author, humorist and actor George Plimpton in film "Paper Lion" (1968), "The Extraordinary Seaman" (1969), and "The Mephisto Waltz" (1971).
Alda is in fact the only series regular to appear in each and every one of 251 episodes.
As more and more of the original series writers left the series, Alda gained more control and by the final seasons he had become project and creative consultant.
In 2004, Alda portrayed the late conservative Maine Senator Owen Brewster in Martin Scorsese's Academy-Award winning film "The Aviator" in which he co-starred with rising young actor Leonardo DiCaprio.
Throughout his career, Alda has received 31 Emmy Award nominations and two Tony Award nominations, and has won seven People's Choice Awards, six Golden Globe awards, and three Directors Guild of America awards.
In the spring of 2005, Alda starred as Shelly Levene in the Broadway revival of David Mamet's "Glengarry Glen Ross," for which he received a Tony Award nomination for Best Featured Actor in a Play.
Alda has done extensive charity work.
In 2005, Alda published his first round of memoirs, "Never Have Your Dog Stuffed: and Other Things I've Learned".
He also talks about his mother's battle with schizophrenia.
The title comes from an incident in his childhood, when Alda was distraught about his dog dying and his well-meaning father had the animal stuffed.
Alda was horrified by the results, and took from this that sometimes we have to accept things as they are, rather than desperately and fruitlessly trying to change them.
In 2006, Alda contributed his voice to a part in the audio book of Max Brooks' "World War Z".
His second memoir, "Things I Overheard While Talking to Myself", weaves together advice from public speeches he has given with personal recollections about his life and beliefs.
Remember, this is an *introductory* article to American football.
It exists to give people who know little or nothing about the sport a basic understanding of the game.
Information that does not fall under that description should go under American-football strategy, American football rules, etc.
The winner is the team with the most points when the time expires when the last play ends.
Outside the United States, the sport is referred to as American football (or a translation thereof) to differentiate it from other football codes.
Befitting its status as a popular sport, football is played in leagues of different size, age, and quality, in all regions of the country.
Organized football is played almost exclusively by men and boys, although a few amateur and semi-professional women's leagues have begun play in recent years.
The 32-team United Football League.
There are professional American football leagues located in over 50 countries in the world (see List of leagues of American and Canadian football).
A few of the more popular international leagues are the German Football League (GFL) and the Japanese X-League.
The NFL does not operate any developmental leagues currently since the closing of NFL Europa.
Players unable to make an NFL team sometimes play in other leagues such as the Arena Football League or Canadian Football League, both of which have rules differing somewhat from those of the NFL.
High school teams generally play only against other teams from their state (notable exceptions include matchups between nearby schools located on opposite sides of a state line and occasional matchups between two nationally-ranked teams for television purposes).
Still, some private Christian high schools play for 'national championships' through organizations like the Federated Christian Athletic Association.
Due to the speed and violence of the sport, many non-organized football games involve variations of the rules to minimize contact.
These include flag football.
Football is an autumn sport.
A season typically begins in mid-to-late August and runs through December, into January.
The professional playoffs run through January, and the Super Bowl is often played in the first week of February.
It is a long-standing tradition in the United States (though not universally observed) that high school football games are played on Friday night, college games on Saturday, and professional games on Sunday.
In the 1970s, the NFL began to schedule one game on Monday night.
In recent years, nationally televised Thursday night college games have become a weekly fixture on ESPN.
Beginning in 2006, the NFL began scheduling games on Thursday and Saturday nights after the college football regular season concludes in mid-November.
Certain fall and winter Thanksgiving and New Year's Day&mdash;have traditional football games associated with them.
The NFL operated a developmental league, Canadian rules.
In Japan, the X-League is a professional league with 60 teams in four divisions, using promotion and relegation.
After the post-season playoffs, the X-League champion is determined in the Japan X Bowl.
There are also over 200 universities fielding teams, with the national collegiate championship determined by the Koshien Bowl.
The professional and collegiate champions then face each other in the Rice Bowl to determine the national champion.
The International Federation of American Football is the governing body for American football with 45 member associations from North and South America, Europe, Asia and Oceania.
The IFAF also oversees the American Football World Cup, which is held every four years.
Japan won the first two World Cups, held in 1999 and 2003.
Team USA, which had not participated in the previous World Cups, won the title in 2007.
Despite this, the game has been slow to catch on in most countries.
The object of American football is to score more points than the opposing team within the time limit.
Two rows of lines, known as inbounds lines or "hash marks", parallel the side lines near the middle of the field.
All plays start with the ball on or between the hash marks.
The posts are connected by a crossbar 10&nbsp;feet (305&nbsp;cm) from the ground.
Each team has 11 players on the field at a time.
However, teams may substitute for any or all of their players, if time allows, during the break between plays.
As a result, players have very specialized roles, and, sometimes (although rarely) almost all of the (at least) 46 active players on an NFL team will play in any given game.
Thus, teams are divided into three separate units: the defense and the special teams.
The game is begun by a coin toss.
The winner of the coin toss is given the option of choosing who receives the ball first or which end of the field they would like to defend first (teams switch ends after the 1st quarter).
If they choose who receives the ball first, the opposite team will choose which end of the field they would like to defend first, and vice-versa.
This allows the coin toss winner to choose first in the second half.
Contrary to popular belief, the team that kicks off in the first half does not automatically receive the ball in the second half.
In the second half, whichever team did not select first in the first half is given the option of choosing who receives the ball first or which end of the field they would like to defend first (teams switch ends after the 3rd quarter).
If they choose who receives the ball first, the opposite team will choose which end of the field they would like to defend first, and vice-versa.
A standard football game consists of four 15-minute (typically 12 minutes in high-school football) quarters, with a sudden death.
In a regular-season NFL game, if neither team scores in overtime, the game is a tie.
In an NFL playoff game, additional overtime periods are played, as needed, to determine a winner.
College overtime rules are more complicated and are described in Overtime (sport).
The forward pass is a key factor distinguishing American and Canadian football from other football sports.
The offense can throw the ball forward only once during a down and only from behind the line of scrimmage.
The ball can be thrown, pitched, handed-off, or tossed sideways or backwards at any time.
Officials blow a whistle to notify players that the down is over.
After safeties, the team that gave up the points must free kick the ball to the other team from its own 20 yard line.
Most penalties result in moving the football towards the offending team's end zone.
If the penalty would move the ball more than half the distance towards the offender's end zone, the penalty becomes half the distance to the goal instead of its normal value.
Most penalties result in replaying the down.
Some defensive penalties give the offense an automatic first down.
Conversely, some offensive penalties result in loss of a down (loss of the right to repeat the down).
If a penalty gives the offensive team enough yardage to gain a first down, they get a first down, as usual.
If a foul occurs during a down, an official throws a yellow flag near the spot of the foul.
When the down ends, the team that did not commit the foul has the option of accepting the penalty, or declining the penalty and accepting the result of the down.
Under certain circumstances clipping and blocking in the back are legal.
Variations on these basic rules exist, particularly intramural or youth games.
Another variation is "wrap", where a player is "tackled" when another player wraps his arms around the ball carrier.
Professional, intercollegiate, and varsity-level high school football invariably use the standard tackling rules.
Another variation is with the number of players on the field.
In sparsely populated areas, it is not uncommon to find high school football teams playing nine-man football, eight-man football or six-man football.
Players often play on offense as well as defense.
The Arena Football League is a league that plays eight-man football, but also plays indoors and on a much smaller playing surface.
Most football players have highly specialized roles.
At the college and NFL levels, most play only offense or only defense.
At least seven players must line up on the line of scrimmage on every offensive play.
The other players may line up anywhere behind the line.
The exact number of running backs, wide receivers and tight ends may differ on any given play.
For example, if the team needs only 1 yard, it may use three tight ends, two running backs and no wide receivers.
On the other hand, if it needs 20 yards, it may replace all of its running backs and tight ends with wide receivers.
The units of players who handle kicking plays are known as punter, who handles punts, the placekicker or kicker, who kicks off and attempts field goals and extra points, and the long snapper, who snaps the ball for extra points, field goals, and punts.
This helps officials as it means that numbers 50 to 79 are ineligible receivers, or players that may never receive a forward pass.
Because the game stops after every down, giving teams a chance to call a new play, strategy plays a major role in football.
Ideally, each play is a scripted, strategically sound team-coordinated endeavor.
Some plays are very safe; they are likely to get only a few yards.
Other plays have the potential for long gains but at a greater risk of a loss of yardage or a turnover.
Generally speaking, rushing plays are less risky than passing plays.
However, there are relatively safe passing plays and risky running plays.
To deceive the other team, some passing plays are designed to resemble running plays and vice versa.
There are many trick or gadget plays, such as when a team lines up as if it intends to punt and then tries to run or pass for a first down.
Such high-risk plays are a great thrill to the fans when they work.
However, they can spell disaster if the opposing team realizes the deception and acts accordingly.
The defense also plans plays in response to expectations of what the offense will do.
A blitz makes downfield passing more difficult but exposes the defense to big gains if the offensive line stems the rush.
Many hours of preparation and strategizing, including film review by both players and coaches, go into the days between football games.
This, along with the demanding physicality of football (see below), is why teams typically play at most one game per week.
American football is a collision sport.
To stop the offense from advancing the ball, the defense must tackle the player with the ball by knocking or pulling him down.
As such, defensive players must use some form of physical contact to bring the ball-carrier to the ground, within certain rules and guidelines.
Tacklers cannot kick or punch the runner.
They also cannot grab the face mask of the runner's helmet or lead into a tackle with their own helmet.
Despite these and other rules regarding unnecessary roughness, most other forms of tackling are legal.
Blockers and defenders trying to evade them also have wide leeway in trying to force their opponents out of the way.
Quarterbacks are regularly hit by defenders coming on full speed from outside the quarterback's field of vision.
This is commonly known as a blindside.
To compensate for this, players must wear special protective equipment, such as a padded plastic helmet, shoulder pads, hip pads and knee pads.
These protective pads were introduced decades ago and have improved ever since to help minimize lasting injury to players.
An unintended consequence of all the safety equipment has resulted in increasing levels of violence in the game.
Players may now hurl themselves at one another at high speeds without a significant chance of injury.
The injuries that do result tend to be severe and often season or career-ending and sometimes fatal.
In previous years with less padding, tackling more closely resembled tackles in Rugby football.
Better helmets have allowed players to use their helmets as weapons.
All this has caused the various leagues, especially the NFL, to implement a complicated series of penalties for various types of contact.
Most recently, virtually any contact with the helmet of a defensive player on the quarterback, or any contact to the quarterback's head, is now a foul.
Despite protective equipment and rule changes to emphasize safety, injuries remain very common in football.
It is increasingly rare, for example, for NFL quarterbacks or running backs (who take the most direct hits) to make it through an entire season without missing some time to injury.
Concussions are common, with about 41,000 suffered every year among high school players according to the Brain Injury Association of Arizona.
Extra and optional equipment such as neck rolls, spider pads, rib protectors, and elbow pads help against injury as well, though they do not tend to be used by the majority of players due to their lack of requirement.
The danger of football and the equipment required to reduce it make regulation football impractical for casual play.
American football has its origins in varieties of football played in the United Kingdom in the mid-19th century.
This movement was usually achieved by kicking or batting at the ball, as in European football.
The number of men on each side was quite different from the eleven which characterizes the modern game.
As to the "first" game of American football, that is harder to identify because such contests under the label of a "football" game between colleges were often played under rules that were so different from today's game as to call into question the veracity of the claims.
Officially, intercollegiate football began in 1869 with a game between Rutgers University and Princeton University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.
However, this game was closer to soccer than to today's American football.
In 1874, Rugby rules the Canadians had learned from British soldiers.
The Americans found they preferred the rugby game, and soon, it was being played around the elite colleges of the U.S. Northeast.
Encouraged by Yale University's Walter Camp, the schools began to adopt the rules that would differentiate American football from rugby in the 1880s.
The scrimmage was introduced in 1880 and the system of downs in 1882.
By the turn of the 20th century, football had become notoriously dangerous; 18 college players died in 1905 alone.
The game had achieved its modern form by 1912, when the field was changed to its current size, the value of a touchdown increased to 6 points, and a fourth down added to each possession.
Originally dominated by Harvard, Princeton, and Yale, football soon captured the interest of colleges nationwide.
By 1916, when the Rose Bowl game matching eastern and western teams became an annual event, football had developed a national following second only to baseball among team sports.
Professional football developed in the mill towns of Pennsylvania and the American Midwest in the early years of the 20th century.
The NFL was founded in 1920 in Canton, Ohio as the American Professional Football Association; it adopted its current name in 1922.
Professional football remained a largely regional sport of secondary importance until after World War II, when television broadcasts boosted NFL football's national appeal.
The pro game surpassed both college football and baseball in popularity in the 1960s.
The first Super Bowl&mdash;between the champions of the NFL and the rival American Football League&mdash;was played in 1967, and the leagues merged in 1970.
December 4, 2005; "Football America", a series of articles attesting to the pervasive popularity of American football in America at all levels.
Throughout the war, the British were able to use their naval superiority to capture and occupy coastal cities, but control of the countryside (where 90% of the population lived) largely eluded them due to their relatively small land army.
In early 1778, shortly after an American Treaty of Paris in 1783 ended the war and recognized the sovereignty of the United States over the territory bounded by what is now Canada to the north, Florida to the south, and the Mississippi River to the west.
Seeking to coordinate military efforts, the Continental Congress established (on paper) a regular army in June 1775, and appointed George Washington as commander-in-chief.
The development of the Continental Army was always a work in progress, and Washington used both his regulars and state militia throughout the war.
The United States Marine Corps traces its institutional roots to the Continental Marines of the war, formed at Tun Tavern in Philadelphia, by a resolution of the Continental Congress on November 10 1775, a date regarded and celebrated as the birthday of the Marine Corps.
At the end of the American Revolution in 1783, both the Continental Navy and Continental Marines were disbanded.
About 250,000 men served as regulars or as militiamen for the Revolutionary cause in the eight years of the war, but there were never more than 90,000 total men under arms at one time.
Armies were small by European standards of the era; the greatest number of men that Washington personally commanded in the field at any one time was fewer than 17,000.
This could be attributed to tactical preferences, but it also could be because of lack of powder on the American side.
Early in 1775, the British Army consisted of about 36,000 men worldwide, but wartime recruitment steadily increased this number.
The troops were mercenaries in the sense of professionals who were hired out by their prince.
Germans made up about one-third of the British troop strength in North America.
By 1779, the number of British and German troops stationed in North America was over 60,000, though these were spread from Canada to Florida.
Most Native Americans east of the Mississippi River were affected by the war, and many communities were divided over the question of how to respond to the conflict.
Most Native Americans opposed the United States, since native lands were threatened by expanding American settlement.
An estimated 13,000 warriors fought on the British side; the largest group, the Iroquois Confederacy, fielded about 1,500 men.
Before the war, North American commander-in chief, commanded four regiments of British regulars (about 4,000 men) from his headquarters in Boston, but the countryside was in the hands of the Revolutionaries.
On the night of minutemen formed up on the village green.
Shots were exchanged, killing several minutemen.
The British moved on to Concord, where a detachment of three companies was engaged and routed at the North Bridge by a force of 500 minutemen.
As the British retreated back to Boston, thousands of militiamen attacked them along the roads, inflicting great damage before timely British reinforcements prevented a total disaster.
With the Battles of Lexington and Concord, the war had begun.
The militia converged on Boston, William Howe seized the Charlestown peninsula at the Battle of Bunker Hill.
The Americans fell back, but British losses were so heavy that the attack was not followed up.
The siege was not broken, and Gage was soon replaced by Howe as the British commander-in-chief.
In July 1775, newly appointed General Washington arrived outside Boston to take charge of the colonial forces and to organize the Continental Army.
Realizing his army's desperate shortage of gunpowder, Washington asked for new sources.
Arsenals were raided and some manufacturing was attempted; 90% of the supply (2 million pounds) was imported by the end of 1776, mostly from France.
The standoff continued throughout the fall and winter.
In early March 1776, heavy cannons that the patriots had Washington then moved most of the Continental Army to fortify New York City.
Colonel James Livingston led the 1st Canadian Regiment at the Battle of Quebec (1775) and Moses Hazen led the 2nd Canadian Regiment to support the American cause at the Battle of Saint-Pierre.
They both continued to fight for the Americans until the end of the war.
During the long standoff at Boston, the province of Quebec (comprising present-day Quebec).
Two Canada-bound expeditions were undertaken.
On attacked Quebec City on December 31, but were soundly defeated by Carleton.
The remaining Americans held on outside Quebec City until the spring of 1776, and then withdrew.
Having withdrawn his army from Boston, General Howe now focused on capturing New York City.
To defend the city, General Washington divided his 20,000 soldiers between largest battle of the entire Revolution.
Howe then laid siege to fortifications there, but Washington managed to evacuate his army to Manhattan.
On September 15, Howe died of neglect than died in every battle of the entire war, combined.
The outlook of the Continental Army was bleak.
Thomas Paine, who was with the army on the retreat.
The army had dwindled to fewer than 5,000 men fit for duty, and would be reduced to 1,400 after enlistments expired at the end of the year.
Congress had abandoned Philadelphia in despair, although popular resistance to British occupation was growing in the countryside.
Washington decided to take the offensive, stealthily crossing the Delaware on Christmas night and capturing nearly 1,000 Hessians at the Princeton on January 3, 1777.
Washington then entered winter quarters at Morristown, New Jersey, having given a morale boost to the American cause.
New Jersey militia continued to harass British and Hessian forces throughout the winter, forcing the British to retreat to their base in and around New York City.
At every stage the British strategy assumed a large base of Loyalist supporters who would rally to the King given some military support.
In February 1776 Clinton took 2,000 men and a naval squadron to invade North Carolina, which he called off when he learned the Loyalists had been crushed at the Battle of Moore's Creek Bridge.
In June he tried to seize Charleston, South Carolina, the leading port in the South, hoping for a simultaneous rising in South Carolina.
It seemed a cheap way of waging the war but it failed as the naval force was defeated by the forts and because no local Loyalists attacked the town from behind.
When the British began to plan operations for 1777, they had two main armies in North America: Carleton's army in Canada, and Howe's army in New York.
In London, Lord George Germain approved campaigns for these armies which, because of miscommunication, poor planning, and rivalries between commanders, did not work in conjunction.
Although Howe successfully captured Philadelphia, the northern army was lost in a disastrous surrender at Saratoga.
Both Carleton and Howe resigned after the 1777 campaign.
This is a brief summary of the "Saratoga campaign" article.
Add details there rather than here.
The first of the 1777 campaigns was an expedition from Canada led by General John Burgoyne.
The goal was to seize the Lake Champlain and Hudson River corridor, effectively isolating New England from the rest of the American colonies.
Burgoyne set off in June, and decisively defeated by American militia in August, depriving Burgoyne of nearly 1,000 men.
Burgoyne's army was now reduced to about 6,000 men.
Saratoga was the turning point of the war.
Revolutionary confidence and determination, suffering from Howe's successful occupation of Philadelphia, was renewed.
More importantly, the victory encouraged France to make an open alliance with the Americans, after two years of semi-secret support.
For the British, the war had now become much more complicated.
This is a brief summary of the "Philadelphia campaign" article.
Add details there rather than here.
Having secured New York City in 1776, General Howe concentrated on capturing Philadelphia, the seat of the Revolutionary government, in 1777.
He moved slowly, landing 15,000 troops in late August at the northern end of unsuccessfully attacked the British encampment in nearby Germantown in early October and then retreated to watch and wait.
After repelling a British attack at Baron von Steuben.
Indeed, von Steuben introduced the most modern Prussian methods of organization and tactics.
General Clinton replaced Howe as British commander-in-chief.
French entry into the war had changed British strategy, and Clinton abandoned Philadelphia in order to reinforce New York City, now vulnerable to French naval power.
Washington shadowed Clinton on his withdrawal and forced a draw at the Admiral d'Estaing arrived off the American coast.
Washington's army returned to White Plains, New York, north of the city.
Although both armies were back where they had been two years earlier, the nature of the war had now changed.
In 1778, the war over the rebellion in North America became international; spreading not only to Europe, but to the European colonies, chiefly in India.
After learning of the American victory in Saratoga, France signed the Treaty of Alliance with the United States on February 6, 1778.
Spain entered the war as an ally of France in June 1779, a renewal of the Bourbon Family Compact.
In London King George III gave up hope of subduing America by more armies while Britain had a European war to fight.
There was no hope of recovering New England.
His plan was to keep the 30,000 men garrisoned in New York, Rhode Island, in Canada, and in Florida; other forces would attack the French and Spanish in the West Indies.
To punish the Americans the King planned to destroy their coasting-trade, bombard their ports; sack and burn towns along the coast (like New London, Connecticut), and turn loose the Native Americans to attack civilians in frontier settlements.
These operations, the King felt, would inspire the Loyalists; would splinter the Congress; and "would keep the rebels harassed, anxious, and poor, until the day when, by a natural and inevitable process, discontent and disappointment were converted into penitence and remorse" and they would beg to return to his authority.
The plan meant destruction for the Loyalists and loyal Native Americans, and indefinite prolongation of a costly war, as well as the risk of disaster as the French and Spanish were assembling an armada to invade the British isles and seize London.
The British planned to re-subjugate the rebellious colonies after dealing with their European allies.
When the war began, the British had overwhelming naval superiority over the American colonists.
French entry into the war meant that British naval superiority was now contested.
The Franco-American alliance began poorly, however, with failed operations at Savannah, Georgia, in 1779.
Part of the problem was that France and the United States had different military priorities: France hoped to capture British possessions in the West Indies before helping to secure American independence.
While French financial assistance to the American war effort was already of critical importance, French military aid to the Americans would not show positive results until the arrival in July 1780 of a large force of soldiers led by the Comte de Rochambeau.
Spain entered the war on the side of the Americans with the goal of recapturing "Moonlight Battle" (January, 1780).
Further Franco-Spanish efforts to capture Gibraltar were unsuccessful.
One notable success took place on February 5, 1782 when Spanish and French forces captured Minorca, which Spain retained after the war.
There was much action in the West Indies, with several islands changing hands, especially in the Admiral de Grasse frustrated the hopes of France and Spain to take Jamaica and other colonies from the British.
On the East and West Florida in the peace settlement.
The military action in North America and the Caribbean helped spark a conflict between Britain and France over Madras.
The Second Mysore war came to an end by the Treaty of Mangalore.
It is an important document in the history of India.
It was the last occasion when a Native Indian power dictated terms to the British, who were made to play the role of humble supplicants for peace.
In 1780, the British struck against the United Provinces of the Netherlands in order to preempt Dutch involvement in the League of Armed Neutrality, a declaration of several European powers that they would conduct neutral trade during the war.
Britain was not willing to allow the Netherlands to openly give aid to the American rebels.
During the first three years of the American Revolutionary War, the primary military encounters were in the north.
After French entry into the war, the British turned their attention to the southern colonies, where they hoped to regain control by recruiting Loyalists.
This southern strategy also had the advantage of keeping the Royal Navy closer to the Caribbean, where the British needed to defend their possessions against the French and Spanish.
On besieged Charleston, capturing it on May 12, 1780.
With relatively few casualties, Clinton had seized the South's biggest city and seaport, paving the way for what seemed like certain conquest of the South.
The remnants of the southern Continental Army began to withdraw to Waxhaws on May 29, 1780.
With these events, organized American military activity in the region collapsed, though the war was carried on by partisans such as Francis Marion.
Cornwallis took over British operations, while Horatio Gates arrived to command the American effort.
On August 16, 1780, Gates was defeated at the Battle of Camden, setting the stage for Cornwallis to invade North Carolina.
One wing of his army was utterly defeated at the Battle of Kings Mountain on October 7, 1780.
Tarleton was decisively defeated at the Battle of Cowpens on January 17, 1781, by American General Daniel Morgan.
General Nathanael Greene, Gates's replacement, proceeded to wear down the British in a series of battles, each of them tactically a victory for the British but giving no strategic advantage to the victors.
In March 1781, General Washington dispatched General Lafayette to defend Virginia.
The young Frenchman skirmished with Cornwallis, avoiding a decisive battle while gathering reinforcements.
Cornwallis was unable to trap Lafayette, and so he moved his forces to Yorktown, Virginia, in July so the Royal Navy could return his army to New York.
West of the Native Americans supported the British.
Like the Iroquois Confederacy, tribes such as the Cherokees and the Shawnees split into factions.
The British supplied their native allies with muskets and gunpowder and advised raids against civilian settlements, especially in New York, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania.
Joint Iroquois-Loyalist attacks in the Cherry Valley in 1778 provoked Washington to send the Sullivan Expedition into western New York during the summer of 1779.
There was little fighting as Sullivan systematically destroyed the Native American winter food supplies, forcing them to flee permanently to British bases in Canada and the Niagara Falls area.
In the Vincennes in the summer of 1778.
When General Henry Hamilton, the British commander at Detroit, retook Vincennes, Clark returned in a surprise march in February 1779 and captured Hamilton himself.
The northern, southern, and naval theaters of the war converged in 1781 at Yorktown, Virginia.
In early September, French naval forces defeated a British fleet at the Battle of the Chesapeake, cutting off Cornwallis' escape.
Washington hurriedly moved American and French troops from New York, and a combined Franco-American force of 17,000 men commenced the siege of Yorktown in early October.
Cornwallis' position quickly became untenable, and he surrendered his army on October 19 1781.
With the surrender at Yorktown, King George lost control of Parliament to the peace party, and there were no further major military activities on land.
The British had 30,000 garrison troops occupying New York City, Charleston, and Savannah.
The war continued at sea between the British and the French fleets in the West Indies.
The British might have sent more troops to attack the colonists if not for the numerous American ships attacking British shipping lanes worldwide.
In London as political support for the war plummeted after Yorktown, left New York City on November 25, 1783.
Britain negotiated the Paris peace treaty without consulting her Native American allies and ceded all Native American territory between the Appalachian Mountains and the Mississippi River to the United States.
Full of resentment, Native Americans reluctantly confirmed these land cessions with the United States in a series of treaties, but the fighting would be renewed in conflicts along the frontier in the coming years, the largest being the Northwest Indian War.
The total loss of life resulting from the American Revolutionary War is unknown.
As was typical in the wars of the era, disease claimed more lives than battle.
Historian Joseph Ellis suggests that Washington's decision to have his troops inoculated against the smallpox epidemic was one of his most important decisions.
An estimated 25,000 American Revolutionaries died during active military service.
About 8,000 of these deaths were in battle; the other 17,000 deaths were from disease, including about 8,000 who died while casualty figure was therefore as high as 50,000.
About 171,000 seamen served for the British during the war; about 25 to 50 percent of them had been deserted during the war.
Approximately 1,200 Germans were killed in action and 6,354 died from illness or accident.
About 16,000 of the remaining German troops returned home, but roughly 5,500 remained in the United States after the war for various reasons, many eventually becoming American citizens.
No reliable statistics exist for the number of casualties among other groups, including Loyalists, British regulars, Native Americans, French and Spanish troops, and civilians.
The war of American independence could be summed up as a civil war fought on foreign soil, as opposing forces comprised both nations' residents.
One could argue that after the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, it was a war between two different nations, the Americans and the British.
Suppressing a rebellion in America also posed other problems.
Since the colonies covered a large area and had not been united before the war, there was no central area of strategic importance.
In Europe, the capture of a capital often meant the end of a war; in America, when the British seized cities such as New York and Philadelphia, the war continued unabated.
Furthermore, the large size of the colonies meant that the British lacked the manpower to control them by force.
Once any area had been occupied, troops had to be kept there or the Revolutionaries would regain control, and these troops were thus unavailable for further offensive operations.
The British had sufficient troops to defeat the Americans on the battlefield but not enough to simultaneously occupy the colonies.
This manpower shortage became critical after French and Spanish entry into the war, because British troops had to be dispersed in several theaters, where previously they had been concentrated in America.
The British also had the difficult task of fighting the war while simultaneously retaining the allegiance of Loyalists.
Loyalist support was important, since the goal of the war was to keep the colonies in the British Empire, but this imposed numerous military limitations.
Early in the war, the Howe brothers served as peace commissioners while simultaneously conducting the war effort, a dual role which may have limited their effectiveness.
Additionally, the British could have recruited more slaves and Native Americans to fight the war, but this would have alienated many Loyalists, even more so than the controversial hiring of German mercenaries.
The need to retain Loyalist allegiance also meant that the British were unable to use the harsh methods of suppressing rebellion they employed in Ireland and Scotland.
Even with these limitations, many potentially neutral colonists were nonetheless driven into the ranks of the Revolutionaries because of the war.
This combination of factors led ultimately to the downfall of British rule in America and the rise of the revolutionaries' own independent nation, the United States of America.
Out of the approximately 107 battles of the American Revolutionary War, the British and their allies won 48.
Tactically, out of the 48 battles, 15 were decisive conflicts and 4 were pyrrhic.
To avoid duplication, notes for sections with a link to a "Main article" will be found in the linked article.
These are some of the standard works about the war in general which are not listed above; books about specific campaigns, battles, units, and individuals can be found in those articles.
The "ampere", in practice often shortened to "amp", (symbol: A) is a unit of electric current, or amount of electric charge per second.
The ampere is a mole, candela and the kilogram: it is defined without reference to the quantity of electric charge.
The unit of charge, the coulomb, is defined, as a derived unit, to be the amount of charge displaced by a one ampere current in the time of one second.
As a result, electric current is also the time rate of change or displacement of electric charge.
One ampere represents the rate of 1 coulomb of charge per second.
Because it is a base unit, the definition of the ampere is not tied to any other electrical unit.
The definition for the ampere is equivalent to fixing a value of the electrolytic deposition rate of silver.
The ampere is most accurately realized using a ohm, since the latter two can be tied to physical phenomena that are relatively easy to reproduce, the Josephson junction and the quantum Hall effect, respectively.
The unit of Current, then, is the rate at which charge flows through a wire or surface.
As with other SI base units, there have been proposals to redefine the kilogram in such a way as to define some presently measured physical constants to fixed values.
The following terms are used in American football and Canadian football, but see also the glossary of Canadian football.
Several variations are employed.
Bowl XX Champion 1985 Chicago Bears.
Also known as the "Oklahoma Defense," it is structurally very similar to the 3-4.
West Coast Offense but adapted to the shotgun formation.
In this offense the running game is heavily de-emphasized while the quick pass, medium pass, and screen game are highly developed.
This includes rushing and receiving yards gained on offense, yards gained on returns of interceptions and fumbles, and yards gained on kickoff and punt returns.
Under NFHS (High School) rules the only fouls whose penalties result in an automatic first down are roughing the snapper, holder, kicker, or passer and forward pass interference by the defense.
A first down is rewarded to the offensive team even if the yardage of that penalty is less than the yardage needed for a first down.
Offensively, mostly used for running plays: Running back, Tailback, Quarterbacks, Halfback, Fullbacks and Wingback.
Defensively, generally faster players with some or all responsibility to cover receivers: Linebackers, Cornerbacks and Safeties.
Also called "onside pass" in Canadian football.
There is no limit to the number of backward passes or where they may be thrown from.
However, in the 3-4 defense, one linebacker typically rushes the passer with the three down linemen.
This is not considered a blitz.
If an additional linebacker is sent, bringing the total number of rushers to five, it is a blitz.
A "naked bootleg" is a risky variation of this play when the quarterback has no blockers pulling out with him.
Draft, who failed to meet the expectations of the drafting team.
The center usually snaps the ball.
The middle lineman is not always the snapper.
A degrading way to refer to the Run And Shoot offensive strategy.
Handling a checkdown situation is for a running back to catch these short pass, then use his speed, agilty and power to run for extra yardage.
Originally, clipping was defined as any block from the back, but is now restricted to blocks at or below the waist.
Other blocks from the back are now punished with 10-yard penalties.
A punter, if he is close enough, will often attempt to kick the ball out of bounds close to the receiving team's goal line and pin them back near their own end zone.
For example, if a running back throws one pass all season and completes it his completion percentage would be 100%.
On outside runs such as the sweep, one defensive player (usually a cornerback or outside linebacker) is assigned to keep the rusher from getting to the edge of the play and turning upfield.
If executed properly, the rusher will have to turn upfield before the play calls for it, giving the linebackers a better chance of stopping the play for little or no gain.
Their primary job is to disrupt passing routes and to defend against short and medium passes in the passing game, and to contain the rusher on rushing plays.
Man-to-man, where each eligible receiver is covered by a defensive back or a linebacker.
Zone, where certain players (usually defensive backs and/or linebackers, though occasionally linemen as well) are assigned an area on the field (Flat, Hook, Curl and Deep) that they are to cover.
Cover Zero - Strict man-to-man coverage with no help from safeties (usually a blitz play with at least five men crossing the line of scrimmage) # Cover One - Man-to-man coverage with at least one safety not assigned a player to cover who can help out on deep pass routes.
Cover Two - Zone coverage with the safeties playing deep and covering half the field each.
Can be Cover 2 man, where every receiver is covered by a defensive player, or Cover 2 Zone (Also know as Tampa 2), where CB covers Flat zone, OLB Hook Zone and MLB Curl Zone.
Cover Three - Zone coverage as above, but with extra help from Strong Safety/Cornerback, so that each player covers one-third of a deep zone.
Cover Four - As above, with the corners and safeties dropping into deep coverage, with each taking one-fourth of the width of the field.
Also referred to as Quarters.
The play is designed to get the defense to flow away from the action for a few steps as they follow the linemen, allowing more room for the running back.
The term is also used to describe a legal block (delivered from the front, or from the side with the offensive player's helmet in front of the blocked player) by a wide receiver on a player who lined up inside of him.
Also called a cutback.
The technique is somewhat controversial, as it carries a risk of serious leg injuries to the blocked defenders.
The San Francisco 49ers of the 1980s and early 90's were noted for their cut-blocking (and leg-whipping, which is illegal), a tactic that was later adopted in mid-90's by the NFL's Denver Broncos.
In a Monday Night Football game in 2004, defensive lineman Anthony Williams of the Cincinnati Bengals was lost to the season on a block (by the Broncos tackle George Foster), and in 2005, Jacksonville Jaguars defensive lineman Paul Spicer was badly injured on block by Broncos tackle Matt Lepsis.
Responding to the criticism, in 2004 Broncos coach Mike Shanahan showed local reporters some NFL game film (only seen and used by coaches) that demonstrated how nearly every team in the NFL uses cut-blocking.
Generally there are 4 defensive backs playing at a time; but see "nickel back" and "dime back".
Also known as Rush.
When a defensive tackle lines up directly across from the center, he is known as a nose tackle, often the heaviest player on the defense.
When a defensive tackle lines up between offensive guard "OG" and Offensive tackle "OT", he is known as a 3-gap technique tackle.
There are also less common occurrences which result in a delay of game foul.
See nickel back.
Contrast with an "indirect snap" play in which the ball is first handed to the quarterback, who will then pass or hand it to the eventual ball carrier.
Also used to refer to formations that use a direct snap, such as the single wing.
Triple option strategy.
This is usually accomplished by means of two or three hand-offs, each hand-off going in an opposite direction as the previous one.
Such a play is extremely infrequent in football.
American, and third in Canadian, football.
A first down occurs after a change of possession of the ball, after advancing the ball 10 yards following a previous first down or after certain penalties.
A drop kick is one of the types of kick which can score a field goal.
These quarterbacks may be difficult to defend against since the defensive team cannot focus on one threat to the exclusion of the other.
On the passer's team, these are: the "ends" (see below), the "backs", and (except in the NFL), one player in position to take a hand-to-hand "snap", i.e. a T "quarterback"; provided the player's shirt displays a number in the ranges allowed for eligible receivers.
All players of the opposing team are eligible receivers, and once the ball is touched by a player of the opposing team (anywhere in American, or beyond the lines of scrimmage in Canadian football), all players become eligible.
The receiver motions/moves into the backfield as the ball is snapped to take the handoff and runs around the opposite end from where he lined up.
The player wanting to make one must signal for a fair catch by waving an arm overhead while the ball is in the air.
After that signal, if he gains possession of the ball it is dead immediately and opponents will receive a fifteen yard penalty for hitting him.
A missed field goal can be returned as a punt, if recovered in-bounds by the defending team.
The first of a set of four downs.
A wide receiver who lines up in the backfield outside of another receiver.
Running backs often run pass routes to the flat when they are the safety valve receiver.
I formation, which refers to the half back is lined up about 7 yard deep, and the fullback is lined up about 5 yards deep, both directly behind the quarterback) or how the wide receivers line up (e.g.
There are rules limiting what is legal in a formation.
All five offensive linemen must be on the line of scrimmage (a small amount of leeway is given to tackles when lined up for pass protection).
A numbering exception exists if the offense is in a scrimmage kick formation which allows a player whose number is 1-49 or 80-99 to take the place of a lineman numbered 50-79.
A receiver who is on the line may not go in motion.
The final of a set of four downs.
Unless a first down is achieved or a penalty forces a replay of the down, the team will lose control of the ball after this play.
If a team does not think they can get a first down, they often punt on fourth down or kick a field goal if they are close enough to do so.
The act of using a fourth down play to make a first down.
These are comparatively uncommon.
If a team is close enough, they will generally attempt a field goal on fourth down.
Otherwise, they will usually punt.
However, the coach may elect to try to get a new first down.
This is more likely if the amount of yardage needed for the conversion is small, or if the team is trailing by a significant amount (likelihood of such a try increasing as it gets later in the game).
Free safeties typically play deep, or "center field", and often have the pass defense responsibility of assisting other defensive backs in deep coverage (compared to strong safeties, who usually have an assigned receiver and run support responsibilities).
In modern formations this position may be varied, and this player has more blocking responsibilities in comparison to the "halfback" or "tailback".
Canadian football the term includes muffs.
The goal is the surface above the bar and between the lines of the inner edges of the posts, extending infinitely upward, centered above each end line in American, and each goal line in Canadian football.
Canadian professional football.
Term for a quarterback who acts in an aggressive and decisive manner by usually throwing risky passes for a higher reward.
The widest player on the line in a punting formation.
From 1983 until the end of the 2002 season, in the NCAA (college football) the halo rule was a foul for interference with the opportunity to catch a kick.
The rule was abolished beginning in the 2003 season.
The hand-off goes either backwards or laterally, as opposed to a forward pass.
The lines are parallel to and a distance in from the side lines and marked as broken lines.
If a play is blown dead while the ball is between the hash marks, the ball is spotted where it is blown dead for the following play.
If the play ends outside the hash marks, the ball is spotted at the nearer hash mark.
Penn State football team to refer to the strong safety.
Often backup quarterbacks are used for their superior ball-handling ability or punters for their ability to catch long snaps.
In college football, conferences such as the Big12, where a team does not play all the other teams each year, use a "home and away" schedule to play an opponent two years in a row and then rotate to another opponent.
Teams also use this method to schedule non-conference opponents of roughly equal skill so that ticket revenue is split evenly.
When scheduling teams of a lower calibre, the higher-rated team usually plays at home and provides a cash payout to the other team.
Offense : An offensive strategy designed to gain as much yardage as possible while running as little time off the clock as possible.
Often involves making plays without a huddle.
This technique can also be used to keep the defensive team off-balance.
So named because the quarterback acts as an intermediary in relaying the ball to the ballcarrier.
Also used to refer to formations that use such a snap, as most modern formations do.
Indirect snap formations exploded in popularity after World War II.
Certain players on the offense are not allowed to catch passes.
For example, in most situations offensive linemen cannot be receivers and they may cause their team to be penalized if they catch the ball.
An exception is if the ball has already been tipped by a different player.
An "inside reverse" (sometimes called a scissors play) is a reverse play via an inside handoff.
This foul costs the offense a loss of down and 10 yards.
If it occurs 10 yards behind the line of scrimmage, then the 10 yards is taken from the spot of the foul.
If the foul is committed in the end zone the penalty is a safety.
The "Tackle Box" is also known as the Pocket.
Interior Linebacker (ILB) of the 3-4 formation, that plays in the weak side of the formation.
Also know as Mo.
Similar to "heavy jumbo", in which either the half back or the fullback is replaced by another tight end.
In a goal line formation, Miami package, often one or more of the "tight ends" is actually a linebacker (The New England Patriots use Mike Vrabel this way - he has 6 career regular season TDs) or offensive lineman.
In the NFL, such a player must report in as an eligible receiver because a lineman or linebacker would not generally wear an eligible number.
The kickoff may be a place kick in American or Canadian football, or a drop kick in American football.
Used to run out the clock.
The specific requirements vary by school and by sport.
For each team in American football, the line of scrimmage is through the point of the ball closest to their end line.
In Canadian football, the line of scrimmage of the defensive team is one yard their side of the ball.
The line is 10 yards in advance of where the ball was to be snapped for the previous first down (or is the goal line, if it is no farther than 10 yards away).
The linebackers typically play 1 to 6 yards behind the defensive "linemen" and are the most versatile players on the field because they can defend both run and pass defense or called to "blitz".
There are two types of LB: Middle Linebacker (MLB) and Outside Linebackers (OLB).
In 3-4 formation Outside Linebacker (OLB) may be designated as a "rush linebacker", rushing the passer on almost every play.
The ball is live during plays from scrimmage and free kicks, including kickoffs.
Most teams employ a specialist long snapper instead of requiring the normal center to perform this duty.
This includes a ball in flight during a lateral or forward pass.
A term coined for undrafted free agents that have played well, much like steals, but steals have been drafted, lost gems never did, so they were signed after 'Mr Irrelevant' was drafted.
In American football, only one offensive player can be in motion at a time, cannot be moving toward the line of scrimmage at the snap, and may not be a player who is on the line of scrimmage.
In Canadian football, more than one back can be in motion, and may move in any direction as long as they are behind the line of scrimmage at the snap.
Pure man coverage is very rare; defenses typically mix man and zone coverage.
Ball : a conservative gameplan which involves an offense based around the use of halfbacks with use of the passing game only to advance the running game, and a great emphasis on defense.
Popularized term for Marty Schottenheimer's approach to coaching.
An I formation with two fullbacks and a tailback.
The final player that is drafted within a class of draftees.
The Interior Linebacker (ILB), 3-4 formation, that plays in the weak side of the formation.
May be recovered but not advanced by the kicking team.
European spring league, which folded after its 2007 season.
Named after the coin, worth five cents.
Popularized by the Miami Dolphins in the 1970s, now common.
Other "eligible receivers" are near the "line of scrimmage".
For example, the Nickel Package substitutes a cornerback for either a linebacker or a defensive lineman (the latter is referred to as a 3-3-5 Nickel), or the Jumbo package substitutes a wide receiver with a tight end.
This statistic is not recorded in NFL, but in NFL computer games, they are the statistics used to determine who is a good blocker.
It was formulated in 1973 and it uses the player's completion percentage, passing yards, touchdowns and interceptions.
In the NFL, games (in or around August) that do not count toward the final team standings.
These games are used to pick final team rosters.
Star players often have limited playing time during preseason.
Often used against "Hail Mary" plays, or at the end of the game when the defending team is protecting a lead.
Disparaged by many fans.
The punt returner generally attempts to move the ball as far up the field as possible.
Alternatively, they can signal for a fair catch or allow the ball to go into the end zone for a touchback.
It lasts for fifteen game clock minutes but generally takes much longer since the clock is not continually running.
A tie at the end of four quarters may result in overtime.
New England's Tom Brady and Drew Bledsoe.
The Quarterback quickly snaps the ball and runs right behind or beside the center.
He is one of seven officials.
In college football, it is the portion of the season that is scheduled ahead-of-time by the schools.
It excludes any bowl game, conference championship, or play-off games.
In NFL football, the regular season is defined as weeks 1-17.
Contrast to an End Around, in which the ball is handed off directly to a Wide Receiver (usually the man in motion), so the direction of the play never reverses.
Games at neutral sides are generally not considered road games although they are "away from home".
Receivers run patterns based on the play of the defenders, rather than a predetermined plan.
Also known as 'Run & Gun'.
Although the term usually refers to the halfback or tailback, fullbacks are also considered runningbacks.
A sack is also awarded if a player forces a fumble of the ball, or the ball carrier to go out of bounds, behind the line of scrimmage on an apparent intended forward pass play.
The term gained currency ca.
In Madden NFL series, a sack also mean, for an offensive lineman, being flattened by the defensive lineman, therefore unable to hold off his defensive tackle or defensive end, the worst that could happen is to contributing to conceding an interception or a quarterback sack.
A safety is also awarded if the offensive team commits a foul within its own end zone.
After a safety, the team that was scored upon must kick the ball to the scoring team from its own 20-yard line.
A safety scored during a try scores 2 points (1 point in the NFL) and is followed by a kickoff as for any other try.
A Running Back that is generally very fast, and good at juking and making defenders miss as opposed to running them over on purpose like a 'power' back.
The receiver in this play is usually a running back, although wide receiver and tight end screens are also used.
Although they are both called screen passes, the wide receiver screen and the running back screen are used for very different reasons.
In the case of a running back screen, the play is designed to allow the pass rushers by the offensive linemen, leaving the defender out of position to make a play.
The play is usually employed to defuse the pass rush in the case of a running back screen.
The Wide Receiver screen is a much faster developing play, designed to catch the defense off guard.
Primarily responsible for pass coverage/defense.
All players who move in a shift must come to a complete stop prior to the snap.
In this formation, the quarterback receives the snap 5-8 yards behind the center.
World War II, that typically used an unbalanced line, direct snap, and one wingback.
A pass receiver lined up in the slot at the snap of the ball may be called a slotback or slot receiver.
The play is used when a team needs a very short gain to reach either the goal line or the line to gain.
Often manned by second and third team players.
Technically an incomplete pass, it stops the clock.
There is at least one case of a quarterback in the NFL doing just that, although that quarterback's regular play failed.
Said to be wide, if there is a large gap between players, or narrow, if the gap is small.
A receiver who lines up on the line of scrimmage, several yards outside the offensive linemen.
The term is now rarely used in American Football, having been long since replaced by the wide receiver or wideout, with no distinction between whether the receiver is on the line or not.
Depending on the position and the game situation, this player may be replaced or share time with one or more players later in the game.
A running-back may start the game but share time with another running back in specific situations or to provide the opportunity for rest during the game.
Many of the 2007 New England Patriots like Tom Brady, Matt Light, Asante Samuel and Dan Koppen.
Unexpected players that was drafted into the first round, most notably punter Ray Guy, when normally, even a great punter or kicker would never be drafted earlier than mid- to late-round two.
This is a central defensive back; originally, the term indicated that he lined up on the strong side of the field and covered the tight end.
However, the modern usage of the term now indicates a central defensive back with responsibility for run and pass support, slightly favoring run support.
When a team uses one tight end, the strong side is the side of the field where the tight end lines up.
If the offensive package uses no tight end, or more than one tight end, the strong side is the side of the field with the most offensive players on or just behind the line of scrimmage.
Both defenders will start with power rushes, with the stunting defender getting more of a push.
The other lineman will then go around him, ideally using him as a pick to get free from his blocker.
Numerous variations have been developed including the split-T, wing-T, and wishbone-T.
This is done in the case of a touchback so that the receiving team gets the ball at their own 20.
It is also done by the quarterback in certain situations, such as when they are leading by a safe margin and desire only to run out the 4th quarter clock.
It can also be done towards the end of the first half if the offense doesn't feel they are in a good position to score and would prefer to simply run down the clock and head to the locker room for half-time.
Another notable situation is for a player to give up a touchdown run, take a knee to run down the clock because the opposition has no timeouts left, then they can keep the ball, run down the ball and preserve the lead.
Also often referred to as the "running back", particularly in a "one-back offense".
Tight ends are used as blockers during running plays, and either run a route or stay in to block during passing plays.
Since there are 60 minutes in a non-overtime game, and one team or another always has possession of the ball, the two teams divide up the time with which they have the ball out of the 60 minutes.
If one team has it 40 minutes the other will have it 20 and so forth.
A time of possession advantage is seen as a positive thing and is highly correlative with a win or loss.
Teams that dominate time of possession usually have good defenses (that can keep the opposing team's offense from mounting many long drives) and solid offenses (usually with good running games as running plays keep the clock running more often than passing plays).
This can be accomplished by one of several ways: the receiving team player catching the ball in the endzone and dropping down to one knee; by the ball touching any part of the endzone; the ball carrying out of the endzone in any way without being possessed by either team.
After a touchback, the team that downed it gets the ball at their own 20-yard line.
Designed to gain a preferred blocking angle and larger hole in the line.
Any of a variety of plays that use deception to catch the other team offguard.
Famous trick plays include the fake punt (kick), "Statue of Liberty", flea-flicker, center-eligible, surprise on-side kick and halfback pass plays.
These plays are often dangerous, as most upper level teams have too much skill and experience to be fooled for long.
The try allows the offense (and in some codes, the defense) to score an additional 1 or 2 points.
The loss of the ball by one team to the other team.
This is usually the result of a "fumble" or an "interception".
The best example of tweener is Adalius Thomas who played in 6 diffeent positions (DE, OLB, MLB, SS, CB and DT) in the Baltimore Ravens defense.
Generally a much more aggressive defense than normal.
Done to gain a blocking advantage on one side of the formation; typically one "tackle" or "guard" lines up on the other side of the ball.
For example a common alignment would be E-G-C-G-T-T-E.
Contrast with "shotgun formation".
In other offensive packages, the side of the field with the fewest offensive players on or just behind the line of scrimmage.
A main component of the west coast offense is use of all the eligible receivers in the short passing game.
The ratio of wins to loses, usually expressed as a pair of numbers.
Lines up just outside the "tight end" and one yard off the "line of scrimmage".
A versatile position that can be used as a receiver, blocker, and/or runner of reverses.
Y, similar to the shape of a wishbone.
For example, "Split Right Jet 529 X Post" tells the X-receiver to run a post route.
Short for Yards After Catch.
A quarterback's length of pass is the distance from where the line of scrimmage is, plus where the receiver caught the ball, plus YAC, and.
Screen plays boosts YAC effectively due to the short passes, and the receiver has to run to increase yardage.
For example, "Buffalo Right 534 Boot Y Corner" tells the Y-receiver to run a corner route.
A field is 100 yards.
Typically, a team is required to advance at least 10 yards in order to get a new set of downs.
The amount of yards gained by the offensive team advancing the ball from the line of scrimmage.
Pure zone packages are seldom used; most defenses employ some combination of zone and man coverage.
A defensive package combining a blitz with zone pass coverage.
Allows the defense to choose the blitzer after the offense shows formation and pass coverage requirements, and features unpredictable blitzes from different linebackers and defensive backs.
Invented by coach Dick LeBeau.
The article states "The 32-team National Football League (NFL) is the only major professional American football league".
If you look at the bottom of the Arena_Football_League article has it categorized as Major.
Don't know about Australia, but you are correct for the UK.
Just look at some UK-only Google searches: "American football" gets 1.2 million results.
I disagree with the merge for the same reasons as in February.
Countries outside the US and Canada refer to the game as Gridiron, not American football.
The term American football gives the connotation that the game is exclusive to the United States alone.
Also, patriotic gridiron fans from non-North American countries do not like to call the game American, due to current world politics and they try to distance this international sport from a specific country.
Looking at other articles, if American football, Canadian football and College football each have their separate articles, why does gridiron have to be merged?
Sure, the article is in need of expansion and copyediting, but it can still be worked on.
Breno is right that there are no sources in the Gridiron football article documenting that the term "Gridiron football" is used only in Australia and New Zealand.
But then, there are NO sources whatsoever documenting that the term is used ANYWHERE in the universe!
As such, it is really just a glorified DAB page.
Without sources, the article should be redirected, and the information deleted, not merged.
Proper verifiable sources can be added to back up all the claims in the article; Britannica qualifies as a verifiable source, but I don't know if it covers all the claims, as I'm not a member.
I'd support in remaing a separate article, or at least a DAB page, as the term is defined as relating to both US and Canadian football.
Once it's proved (by sources) that it's a legitimate term, it makes sense to have at least a DAB page for those who use the term.
To be clear, there are several opinions stated above on what the term Gridiron football actually means: #A game similar but not identical to American football.
American football, but presumably not Canadian football #A collective term for both American and Canadian football.
Last night, I was looking for some history on American football.
Anyway, I found the History section but at the bottom of the page.
Now that's unlike just about any other wiki page (sic SPORTS: football, golf, basketball, baseball etc).
The style tsars must have a view on this?
American football has its origins in varieties of football played in the United Kingdom in the mid-19th century.
American football is directly descended from rugby football.
Here are facts that can't be ignored (that the national sport is actually the offspring of another country's) so the whole piece is buried at the end of the article (Section 9).
Like the dirty linen that's been hidden out of sight.
As Popularity is the first article.
I see your point.
Articles do get bloated a lot and need to be managed from slipperly slopes that add more and more info that may look fine individually but as a whole can make things look sloppy.
I have seen this happen before.
As for this being an introductory article, it may be good to have the note not hidden that this article is such.
This article seems completely messed up.
It begins with number descriptions, and has the line "J tites is a FAG".
I have looked at previous versions, and it seems to have been edited recently, to the definite detriment of the article.
I would have reverted to a previous article, but I wouldn't know how to go about it.
The article should not state that there is a type of formation with 3 tight ends.
There can't be more than 2.
Even the article Tight_End states that "the tight end is the last man on the offensive line".
Now I understand that it may be a common term, but the positions for players on the field is identified by where they line up, not by what position the roster says they play.
This incorrect way of identifying players is hurting the public's the understanding of the game of football.
I have seen people believe that a player listed as a TE on the roster is an eligible receiver even if he is not on the end of the line.
They don't understand that who is an end depends on the formation, not what the roster says.
Another example from NFHS (High School) football has to do with blocking below the waist.
Offensive linemen in the free blocking zone can block defensive linemen below the waist on their initial charge before the ball leaves the free blocking zone.
Many people do not understand what constitutes a defensive lineman.
They don't realize that any defensive player within 1 yard of the ball is a lineman, and therefore can be blocked legally below the waist.
It doesn't matter that the team wants to call him a safety or a linebacker.
Thank you for your contributions to the American football article.
We need to favor clarity and simplicity over legalistic certainty.
There is no need to explain every possible angle to a rule.
This is a very complicated sentence for the article.
For one, the term "neutral zone" is not described before this sentence, so we must assume the reader does not know what a "neutral zone" is.
We don't really need to define it in this introductory article, in my opinion.
While it may be technically correct that the pass must be thrown behind the neutral zone rather than the line of scrimmage, the difference is not really important.
Please stop trying to insert complex legalistic text into this article.
It must be kept simple.
If anything is outright inaccurate, it should be corrected, but in a simple, easy-to-understand way.
Your description of legal forward passes is far to complicated for an encyclopedia article.
This is an encyclopedia, not the rulebook.
First of all, relax.
Let's talk about them first, get the input of other editors and go from there.
The article at American football has to be simple.
It is where people unfamiliar with the sport will go to learn about the game.
Putting complicated matter on this page and simpler matter on a subsidiary page is backwards.
The page on a basic topic, whether football, atoms or opera, is what should be simple.
More-complex matter should go on other pages, such as forward pass, positron or cadenza.
Remember that this is an encyclopedia, not a rule book.
How does it explain the forward pass?
Does it use legalistic terms and go into every possible permutation of the rules?
Of course not.
Anyone who could understand such minutia would not be in need of an encyclopedia article on the sport in general.
As I said before, if anything in this article is factually inaccurate, please point it out, and let's correct it in a way that readers will be able to understand.
But let's work together, not work unilaterally and get into a revert war.
No, this is a very complex article.
Does that person care what number a kicker in the NFL has to wear?
Does this person care about the history of the game?
Of course not.
They want to try to somewhat understand what is going on in the game that they are watching on TV.
The simplified article will cut out all of the stuff that person doesn't care about and this article can remain complex.
It will be like simplified baseball rules, nice and short and gives people useful information.
This article is very long and full of complex information that the introductory reader does not care about.
No, that doesn't work.
First off most of the article is useless to someone who knows "little or nothing about the sport".
Football is complex.
An article about football should be complex.
The Simplified American Football article will be s less complex introductory article to football.
That way this article can remain complex and the person who knows nothing and wants to learn won't have to go through a bunch of stuff which is way to complex for this so called introductory article.
I added the link because it contains game reviews and discussions.
I read the content of this site often because it is free and contains good content that may help the people on Wikipedia to understand more about the game especially as it relates to current media.
The concept of an algorithm originated as a means of recording procedures for solving mathematical problems such as finding the common recursive functions of 1930, 1934 and 1935, Alonzo Church's lambda calculus of 1936, Emil Post's "Formulation I" of 1936, and Alan Turing's Turing machines of 1936-7 and 1939.
No generally accepted "formal" definition of "algorithm" exists yet.
The words "enumerably infinite" mean "countable using integers perhaps extending to infinity".
Thus Boolos and Jeffrey are saying that an algorithm "implies" instructions for a process that "creates" output integers from an "arbitrary" "input" integer or integers that, in theory, can be chosen from 0 to infinity.
That notion is central for explaining how formal systems come into being starting from a small set of axioms and rules.
In logic, the time that an algorithm requires to complete cannot be measured, as it is not apparently related with our customary physical dimension.
Algorithms are essential to the way Turing-complete system.
Typically, when an algorithm is associated with processing information, data are read from an input source or device, written to an output sink or device, and/or stored for further processing.
Stored data are regarded as part of the internal state of the entity performing the algorithm.
In practice, the state is stored in a data structure, but an algorithm requires the internal data only for specific operation sets called abstract data types.
For any such computational process, the algorithm must be rigorously defined: specified in the way it applies in all possible circumstances that could arise.
That is, any conditional steps must be systematically dealt with, case-by-case; the criteria for each case must be clear (and computable).
Because an algorithm is a precise list of precise steps, the order of computation will almost always be critical to the functioning of the algorithm.
Instructions are usually assumed to be listed explicitly, and are described as starting "from the top" and going "down to the bottom", an idea that is described more formally by "flow of control".
So far, this discussion of the formalization of an algorithm has assumed the premises of imperative programming.
Unique to this conception of formalized algorithms is the assignment operation, setting the value of a variable.
There is an example below of such an assignment.
For some alternate conceptions of what constitutes an algorithm see functional programming and logic programming.
As it happens, no other method can do any better, as was shown by Alan Turing with his celebrated result on the undecidability of the so-called halting problem.
There is no algorithmic procedure for determining of arbitrary algorithms whether or not they terminate from given starting states.
The analysis of algorithms for their likelihood of termination is called termination analysis.
Instead, terms of success that allow for unbounded output sequences must be defined.
For example, an algorithm that verifies if there are more zeros than ones in an infinite random binary sequence must run forever to be effective.
If it is implemented correctly, however, the algorithm's output will be useful: for as long as it examines the sequence, the algorithm will give a positive response while the number of examined zeros outnumber the ones, and a negative response otherwise.
Success for this algorithm could then be defined as eventually outputting only positive responses if there are actually more zeros than ones in the sequence, and in any other case outputting any mixture of positive and negative responses.
Algorithms can be expressed in many kinds of notation, including natural languages, pseudocode, flowcharts, and programming languages.
Natural language expressions of algorithms tend to be verbose and ambiguous, and are rarely used for complex or technical algorithms.
Pseudocode and flowcharts are structured ways to express algorithms that avoid many of the ambiguities common in natural language statements, while remaining independent of a particular implementation language.
Programming languages are primarily intended for expressing algorithms in a form that can be executed by a computer, but are often used as a way to define or document algorithms.
Sometimes it is helpful in the description of an algorithm to supplement small "flow charts" (state diagrams) with natural-language and/or arithmetic expressions written inside "block diagrams" to summarize what the "flow charts" are accomplishing.
Turing machine uses its head and the way that it stores data on its tape.
Most detailed, "lowest level", gives the Turing machine's "state table".
Most algorithms are intended to be implemented as computer programs.
However, algorithms are also implemented by other means, such as in a biological neural network (for example, the human brain implementing arithmetic or an insect looking for food), in an electrical circuit, or in a mechanical device.
One of the simplest algorithms is to find the largest number in an (unsorted) list of numbers.
The solution necessarily requires looking at every number in the list, but only once at each.
Assume the first item is largest.
Look at each of the remaining items in the list and if it is larger than the largest item so far, make a note of it.
The last noted item is the largest in the list when the process is complete.
The "largest" number in the list "L".
For a more complex example of an algorithm, see Euclid's algorithm for the greatest common divisor, one of the earliest algorithms known.
As it happens, it is important to know how much of a particular resource (such as time or storage) is required for a given algorithm.
Different algorithms may complete the same task with a different set of instructions in less or more time, space, or effort than others.
The analysis and study of algorithms is a discipline of computer science, and is often practiced abstractly without the use of a specific programming language or implementation.
In this sense, algorithm analysis resembles other mathematical disciplines in that it focuses on the underlying properties of the algorithm and not on the specifics of any particular implementation.
Usually pseudocode is used for analysis as it is the simplest and most general representation.
There are various ways to classify algorithms, each with its own merits.
One way to classify algorithms is by implementation means.
Another way of classifying algorithms is by their design methodology or paradigm.
There is a certain number of paradigms, each different from the other.
Furthermore, each of these categories will include many different types of algorithms.
Probabilistic algorithms are those that make some choices randomly (or pseudo-randomly); for some problems, it can in fact be proven that the fastest solutions must involve some randomness.
Thus, they emulate reproduction and "survival of the fittest".
The name "simulated annealing" alludes to the metallurgic term meaning the heating and cooling of metal to achieve freedom from defects.
The purpose of the random variance is to find close to globally optimal solutions rather than simply locally optimal ones, the idea being that the random element will be decreased as the algorithm settles down to a solution.
Every field of science has its own problems and needs efficient algorithms.
Related problems in one field are often studied together.
Some example classes are parsing techniques.
Fields tend to overlap with each other, and algorithm advances in one field may improve those of other, sometimes completely unrelated, fields.
For example, dynamic programming was originally invented for optimization of resource consumption in industry, but is now used in solving a broad range of problems in many fields.
Algorithms can be classified by the amount of time they need to complete compared to their input size.
There is a wide variety: some algorithms complete in linear time relative to input size, some do so in an exponential amount of time or even worse, and some never halt.
Additionally, some problems may have multiple algorithms of differing complexity, while other problems might have no algorithms or no known efficient algorithms.
There are also mappings from some problems to other problems.
Owing to this, it was found to be more suitable to classify the problems themselves instead of the algorithms into equivalence classes based on the complexity of the best possible algorithms for them.
Algorithms, by themselves, are not usually patentable.
In the LZW patent.
Additionally, some cryptographic algorithms have export restrictions (see export of cryptography).
The word "algorithm" comes from the name of the 9th century Arabic numerals but evolved via European Latin translation of al-Khwarizmi's name into "algorithm" by the 18th century.
The word evolved to include all definite procedures for solving problems or performing tasks.
To keep track of their flocks, their sacks of grain and their money the ancients used tallying: accumulating stones or marks scratched on sticks, or making discrete symbols in clay.
Through the Babylonian and Egyptian use of marks and symbols, eventually Roman numerals and the abacus evolved.
Tally marks appear prominently in unary numeral system arithmetic used in Turing machine and Post-Turing machine computations.
Telephone-switching networks of electromechanical relays (invented 1835) was behind the work of George Stibitz (1937), the inventor of the digital adding device.
The problem solver or worker is to move and work in this symbol space, being capable of being in, and operating in but one box at a time.
We may suppose this paper is divided into squares like a child's arithmetic book.
We may suppose that there is a bound B to the number of symbols or squares which the computer can observe at one moment.
If he wishes to observe more, he must use successive observations.
We will also suppose that the number of states of mind which need be taken into account is finite.
Changes of one of the squares observed to another square within L squares of one of the previously observed squares.
A possible change (a) of symbol together with a possible change of state of mind.
Although it is fairly easy to get an intuitive grasp of this idea, it is neverthessless desirable to have some more definite, mathematical expressible definition.
We may take this statement literally, understanding by a purely mechanical process one which could be carried out by a machine.
It is possible to give a mathematical description, in a certain normal form, of the structures of these machines.
With this special meaning, three different precise definitions have been given to date.
All three definitions are equivalent, so it doesn't matter which one is used.
For more, see Algorithm characterizations.
Botanically, an "annual plant" is a plant that usually germinates, flowers and dies in one year.
True annuals will only live longer than a year if they are prevented from setting seed.
Some seedless plants can also be considered annuals even though they do not flower.
In gardening, annual often refers to a plant grown outdoors in the spring and summer and surviving just for one growing season.
Many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including most domesticated cold hardy for the local climate.
Carrot, celery and parsley are true biennials that are usually grown as annual crops for their edible roots, petioles and leaves, respectively.
Tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper are tender perennials usually grown as annuals.
Ornamental annuals are often called bedding plants.
Some biennials that can be grown as annuals are pansy and hollyhock.
One seed-to-seed life cycle for an annual can occur in as little as a month in some species, though most last several months.
They spend most of the year as seeds to survive dry conditions.
Examples of true annuals include corn, lettuce, pea, cauliflower, watermelon, bean, zinnia and marigold.
Summer annuals sprout, flower and die within the same spring/summer/fall.
Winter Annuals are plants that have an annual life span but tend to germinate in the fall or winter and bloom in late autumn/fall, winter or early spring.
The plants grow and bloom during the cool season when most other plants are dormant or other annuals are in seed form waiting for warmer weather to germinate.
Winter annuals die after flowering and setting seed, the seeds wait to germinate until the soil temperature is cool again in the fall or winter.
Winter annuals typically grow low to the ground, where they are usually sheltered from the coldest nights by snow cover, and make use of warm periods in winter for growth when the snow melts.
Some common winter annuals include henbit, deadnettle, chickweed, and winter cress.
Winter annuals are important ecologically, as they provide vegetative cover that prevents soil erosion during winter and early spring when no other cover exists and they provide fresh vegetation for animals and birds that feed on them.
Although they are often considered to be weeds in gardens, this viewpoint is not always necessary, as most of them die when the soil temperature warms up again in early to late spring when other plants are still dormant and have not yet leafed out.
Even though they do not compete directly with cultivated plants, sometimes winter annuals are considered a pest in commercial agriculture, because they can be hosts for insect pests or fungal diseases (ovary smut - Microbotryum sp) which attack crops being cultivated.
Ironically, the property that they prevent the soil from drying out can also be problematic for commercial agriculture.
Mouth washes may also be used to help remove mucous and food particles deeper down in the throat.
Alcoholic and strong flavored mouth washes may cause coughing for this purpose.
The first known reference to mouth rinsing is in the gingivitis.
Later, in the Greek and Roman periods, mouthrinsing following mechanical cleansing became common among the upper classes, and Hippocrates recommended a mixture of salt, alum and vinegar.
The Jewish Talmud, dating back about 1800 years, suggests a cure for gum ailments containing "dough water" and olive oil.
That remained the state of affairs until the late 1960s when Harald Loe (at the time a professor at the Royal Dental College in Aarhus, Denmark) demonstrated that a chlorhexidine compound could prevent the build-up of dental plaque.
The reason for chlorhexidine effectiveness is that it strongly adheres to surfaces in the mouth and thus remains present in effective concentrations for many hours.
Since then commercial interest in mouthwashes has been intense and several newer products claim effectiveness in reducing the build-up in dental plaque and the associated severity of gingivitis (inflammation of the gums), in addition to fighting bad breath.
Many of these solutions target controlling the Volatile Sulfur Compound (VSC) creating anaerobic bacteria that live in your mouth and excrete substances that lead to bad breath and unpleasant mouth taste.
A "salt mouthwash" is a home treatment for mouth infections and/or injuries, or post extraction, and is made by dissolving a teaspoon of salt in a cup of warm water.
Plain (diluted) hydrogen peroxide is another common mouthwash.
One thing to note is that many commercial mouthwashes are very acidic on the PH scale.
If you have heartburn, acid reflux or acid indigestion, it is important to use a mouthwash with a neutral PH to avoid irritation.
See Listerine for a history of the origins of mouthwash.
Persian king Darius III.
From Alexander Mosaic, from Pompeii, Naples, Museo Archeologico Nazionale.
He was one of the most successful military commanders in history, and was undefeated in battle.
By the time of his death, he had conquered most of the world known to the ancient Greeks.
Following the unification of the multiple Great Outer Sea begins.
His conquests ushered in centuries of Greek settlement and cultural influence over distant areas, a period known as the Hellenistic Age, a combination of Greek, Middle Eastern and Indian culture.
Alexander himself lived on in the history and myth of both Greek and non-Greek cultures.
After his death (and even during his life) his exploits inspired a literary tradition in which he appears as a legendary hero in the tradition of Achilles.
Born in Gods were too busy watching over Alexander to care for the temple.
In his early years, Alexander was raised by his nurse Cleitus' older sister.
Following this, Alexander was educated by a strict teacher: Leonidas, a relative of his mother Olympias.
Leonidas thought Alexander narcissistic and silly, and was equally disliked by Alexander.
Reportedly, when Alexander threw a large amount of sacrificial incense into a fire, Leonidas harshly reprimanded him, telling him that when he had conquered the spice bearing regions, he could waste as much as he wanted.
Years later, when Alexander had conquered Gaza, a city directly on the Persian spice trade route, he sent back over 15 tons of myrrh to Leonidas as a sort of ultimate retort.
Aristotle, however, was Alexander's most famous and important tutor since he gave Alexander a thorough training in rhetoric and literature and stimulated his interest in science, medicine, and philosophy.
When Alexander was ten years old, a Thessalian brought a black horse to sell to Philip.
The horse turned out to be wild and no man could mount him.
The young Alexander went to the horse, and turned him towards the sun, for he had noticed that the horse was just afraid of his own shadow.
He was then able to mount and ride it.
Bucephalus would be his companion and one of his best friends for the next two decades until the horse died (according to Plutarch due to old age, for he was already 30; other sources claim that Bucephalus died of wounds sustained in a battle in India).
Alexander then named a city after him called Bocephia.
Eventually Philip reconciled with his son, and Alexander returned home; Olympias remained in Epirus.
In cavalry wing led by Alexander annihilated the Sacred Band of Thebes, an elite corps regarded as invincible.
After the battle, Philip led a wild celebration, from which Alexander was notably absent (it is believed he was treating the wounded and burying the dead, both of his own troops and of the enemy).
It is speculated that Alexander personally treated Demades, a notable orator of Athens, who had opposed Athenian alignment against Philip.
The assembled Athenian army voted on a peace plan drawn up and presented by Demades.
Philip was content to deprive Thebes of its dominion over Boeotia and leave a Macedonian garrison in the citadel.
A few months later, to strengthen Macedon's control over the Greek city-states, the League of Corinth was formed.
In Darius III, the recently crowned King of Persia.
After Philip's death, the army proclaimed Alexander, then aged 20, as the new king of Macedon.
Greek cities like Athens and Thebes, which had been forced to pledge allegiance to Philip, saw in the untested new king an opportunity to regain full independence.
Alexander moved swiftly and Thebes, which had been most active against him, submitted when he appeared at its gates.
The assembled Greeks at the Isthmus of Corinth, with the exception of the Spartans, elected him to the command against Persia, which had previously been bestowed upon his father.
The next year (335 BC), Alexander felt free to engage the Thracians and the Illyrians in order to secure the Danube as the northern boundary of the Macedonian kingdom.
While he was triumphantly campaigning north, the Thebans and Athenians rebelled once again.
Alexander reacted immediately and while the other cities once again hesitated, Thebes decided this time to resist with the utmost vigor.
The resistance was useless; in the end, the city was conquered with great bloodshed.
The Thebans encountered an even harsher fate when their city was razed to the ground and its territory divided between the other Boeotian cities.
Moreover, all of the city's citizens were sold into slavery; Alexander spared only the priests, the leaders of the pro-Macedonian party, and the descendants of Pindar, whose house was the only one left standing.
The end of Thebes cowed Athens into submission.
According to Plutarch, a special Athenian embassy led by Phocion, an opponent of the anti-Macedonian faction, was able to persuade Alexander to give up his demand for the exile of leaders of the anti-Macedonian party, particularly Demosthenes.
Alexander's army crossed the Tyre and Gaza after famous sieges (see Siege of Tyre).
While Darius fled over the mountains to Ecbatana (modern Hamedan), Alexander marched to Babylon.
From Babylon, Alexander went to Second Persian War.
His three-year campaign against first Bessus and then the satrap of Maracanda.
In the aftermath of general Assakenians people fled to a high fortress called Aornos.
Alexander followed them close behind their heels and captured the strategic hill-fort but only after the fourth day of a bloody fight.
The story of Massaga was repeated at Aornos and a similar carnage on the tribal-people followed here too.
Their strongholds at Ora and Aornus were also similarly stormed.
Sisikottos, who had helped Alexander in this campaign, was made the governor of Aornos.
After reducing Aornos, Alexander crossed the Indus and fought and is believed to have won an epic battle against a local ruler Punjab, in the Battle of Hydaspes in 326 BC.
After the battle, Alexander was greatly impressed by Porus for his bravery in battle, and therefore made an alliance with him and appointed him as satrap of his own kingdom, even adding some land he did not own before.
Alexander then named one of the two new cities that he founded, Bucephala, in honor of the horse who had brought him to India, who had died during the Battle of Hydaspes.
Alexander continued on to conquer all the headwaters of the Indus River.
East of Porus' kingdom, near the Hyphasis River (the modern Beas River) refusing to march further east.
Alexander left forces in India however.
In the territory of the Indus, he nominated his officer Eudemus in charge of the army, at the side of the satrap Porus and Taxiles.
Eudemus became ruler of a part of the Punjab after their death.
Both rulers returned to the West in 316 BC with their armies.
In 321 BCE, Chandragupta Maurya founded the Maurya Empire in India and overthrew the Greek satraps.
Discovering that many of his satraps and military governors had misbehaved in his absence, Alexander executed a number of them as examples on his way to Susa.
Alexander executed the ringleaders of the mutiny, but forgave the rank and file.
In an attempt to craft a lasting harmony between his Macedonian and Persian subjects, he held a mass marriage of his senior officers to Persian and other noblewomen at Susa, but few of those marriages seem to have lasted much beyond a year.
His attempts to merge Persian culture with his Greek soldiers also included training a regiment of Persian boys in the ways of Macedonians.
It is claimed that Alexander wanted to overrun or integrate the Arabian peninsula, but this theory is widely disputed.
It was assumed that Alexander would turn westwards and attack Carthage and Italy, had he conquered Arabia.
After traveling to Ecbatana to retrieve the bulk of the Persian treasure, his closest friend and possibly lover Hephaestion died of an illness, or possibly of poisoning.
Alexander mourned by Hephaestion's side for six months.
On the afternoon of 11, 323 BC, Alexander died in the palace of Nebuchadrezzar II of Babylon.
He was just one month short of attaining 33 years of age.
Various theories have been proposed for the cause of his death which include poisoning by the sons of Antipater or others, sickness that followed a drinking party, or a relapse of the malaria he had contracted in 336 BC.
It is known that on May 29, Alexander participated in a banquet organized by his friend Medius of Larissa.
After some heavy drinking, immediately before or after a bath, he was forced into bed due to severe illness.
The rumors of his illness circulated with the troops causing them to be more and more anxious.
On June 9, the generals decided to let the soldiers see their king alive one last time.
They were admitted to his presence one at a time.
Because the king was too ill to speak, he confined himself to moving his hand.
The day after, Alexander was dead.
The poisoning theory derives from the story held in antiquity by Justin and Curtius.
The original story stated that Cassander, son of Antipater, viceroy of Greece, brought the poison to Alexander in Babylon in a mule's hoof, and that Alexander's royal cupbearer, Iollas, brother of Cassander, administered it.
Many had powerful motivations for seeing Alexander gone, and were none the worse for it after his death.
Deadly agents that could have killed Alexander in one or more doses include hellebore and strychnine.
The warrior culture of Macedon favoured the sword over strychnine, and many ancient historians, like Plutarch and Arrian, maintained that Alexander was not poisoned, but died of natural causes.
Instead, it is likely that Alexander died of malaria or typhoid fever, which were rampant in ancient Babylon.
Other illnesses could have also been the culprit, including acute pancreatitis or the West Nile virus.
Recently, theories have been advanced stating that Alexander may have died from the treatment not the disease.
Hellebore, believed to have been widely used as a medicine at the time but deadly in large doses, may have been overused by the impatient king to speed his recovery, with deadly results.
No story is conclusive.
Alexander's death has been reinterpreted many times over the centuries, and each generation offers a new take on it.
What is certain is that Alexander died of a high fever on 11 of 323 BC.
On his death bed, his marshals asked him to whom he bequeathed his kingdom.
Since Alexander had no obvious and legitimate heir (his son Alexander IV would be born after his death, and his other son was by a concubine, not a wife), it was a question of vital importance.
There is some debate to what Alexander replied.
Alexander's death has been surrounded by as much controversy as many of the events of his life.
Before long, accusations of foul play were being thrown about by his generals at one another, making it incredibly hard for a modern historian to sort out the propaganda and the half-truths from the actual events.
No contemporary source can be fully trusted because of the incredible level of self-serving recording, and as a result what truly happened to Alexander the Great may never be known.
Most theories that he died from syphilis have been discredited.
Alexander's body was placed in a gold anthropoid Ionic peristyle.
The decoration of the carriage was very lavish and is described in great detail by Diodoros.
According to one legend, Alexander was preserved in a clay vessel full of Ptolemy IX, one of the last successors of Ptolemy I, replaced Alexander's sarcophagus with a glass one, and melted the original down in order to strike emergency gold issues of his coinage.
The citizens of Alexandria were outraged at this and soon after Ptolemy IX was killed.
The Roman emperor Caligula was said to have looted the tomb, stealing Alexander's breastplate, and wearing it.
Around 200 AD, Emperor Septimius Severus closed Alexander's tomb to the public.
His son and successor, Caracalla, was a great admirer of Alexander, and visited the tomb in his own reign.
After this, details on the fate of the tomb are sketchy.
The so-called "Alexander Sarcophagus," discovered near Sidon and now in the Istanbul Archaeology Museum, is now generally thought to be that of Abdylonymus, whom Hephaestion had appointed as the king of Sidon by Alexander's order.
The sarcophagus depicts Alexander and his companions hunting and in battle with the Persians.
Some classical authors, such as Diodorus, relate that Alexander had given detailed written instructions to Craterus some time before his death.
Although Craterus had already started to implement Alexander's orders, such as the building of a fleet in Cilicia for expedition against Carthage, Alexander's successors chose not to further implement them, on the grounds that they were impractical and extravagant.
The testament, described in Diodorus XVIII, called for military expansion into the Southern and Western Mediterranean, monumental constructions, and the intermixing of Eastern and Western populations.
Alexander's lifelong companion was Hephaestion, the son of a Macedonian noble.
Hephaestion also held the position of second-in-command of Alexander's forces until his death, which devastated Alexander.
The full extent of his relationship with Hephaestion is the subject of much historical speculation.
Alexander married two women: Bagoas.
His son by Roxana, Alexander IV of Macedon, was killed after the death of his father, before he reached adulthood.
Alexander was admired during his lifetime for treating all his lovers humanely.
After Alexander's death, in 323 BC, the rule of his Empire was given to Alexander's half-brother Philip Arridaeus and Alexander's son Alexander IV.
However, since Philip was mentally ill and the son of Alexander still a baby, two regents were named in Perdiccas (who had received Alexander's ring at his death) and Craterus (who may have been the one mentioned as successor by Alexander), although Perdiccas quickly managed to take sole power.
Perdiccas soon eliminated several of his opponents, killing about 30 (Diodorus Siculus), and at the Ptolemy, leading to the Partition of Triparadisus, in which Antipater was named as the new regent, and the satrapies again shared between the various generals.
From that time, Alexander's officers were focused on the explicit formation of rival monarchies and territorial states.
Ultimately, the conflict was settled after the Antigonus ruled for a while in Anatolia and Syria but was eventually defeated by the other generals at Ipsus (301 BC).
Control over Indian territory passed to Chandragupta Maurya, the first Maurya emperor, who further expanded his dominions after a settlement with Seleucus.
The Ptolemy dynasty persisted in Cleopatra, best known for her alliances with Julius Caesar and Mark Antony, just before the Roman republic officially became the Roman Empire.
Among other effects, the Greek Septuagint translation, which was compiled ca 200 BC by seventy-odd scholars under the patronage of the Macedonian ruler Ptolemy II Philadelphus.
Thus many Jews from Egypt or Rome would have trouble understanding the teachings of the scholars in the Temple in Jerusalem who were using the Hebrew original text and an Aramaic translation, being themselves only acquainted with the Greek version.
There has been much speculation on the issue whether Jesus spoke Koine Greek as the Gospel-writers, themselves writing in Greek, don't say anything decisive about the matter.
In the late Republic and early Empire, educated Roman citizens used Latin only for legal, political, and ceremonial purposes, and used Greek to discuss philosophy or any other intellectual topic.
No Roman wanted to hear it said that his mastery of the Greek language was weak.
Alexander and his exploits were admired by many Romans who wanted to associate themselves with his achievements, although very little is known about Roman-Macedonian diplomatic relations of that time.
Julius Caesar wept in Spain at the mere sight of Alexander's statue and Pompey the Great rummaged through the closets of conquered nations for Alexander's 260-year-old cloak, which the Roman general then wore as the costume of greatness.
However, in his zeal to honor Alexander, Augustus accidentally broke the nose off the Macedonian's mummified corpse while laying a wreath at the hero's shrine in Alexandria, Egypt.
The unbalanced emperor Caligula later took the dead king's armor from that tomb and donned it for luck.
Modern opinion on Alexander has run the gamut from the idea that he believed he was on a divinely-inspired mission to unite the anachronistic, and the sources allow for a variety of interpretations.
Much about Alexander's personality and aims remains enigmatic.
There were no disinterested commentators in Alexander's own time or soon afterward, so all accounts need to be read with skepticism.
To Zoroastrians, on the other hand, he is remembered as the conqueror of their first great empire and as the destroyer of Persepolis.
Ancient sources are generally written with an agenda of either glorifying or denigrating the man, making it difficult to evaluate his actual character.
Most refer to a growing instability and megalomania in the years following Gaugamela, but it has been suggested that this simply reflects the Greek stereotype of an orientalizing king.
The murder of his friend Cleitus, which Alexander deeply and immediately regretted, is often cited as a sign of his paranoia, as is his execution of Philotas and his general Parmenion for failure to pass along details of a plot against him.
There is also the view that this may have been more prudence than paranoia.
Modern Alexandrists continue to debate these same issues, among others, in modern times.
One unresolved topic involves whether Alexander was actually attempting to better the world by his conquests, or whether his purpose was primarily to rule the world.
Partially in response to the ubiquity of positive portrayals of Alexander, an alternate character is sometimes presented which emphasizes some of Alexander's negative aspects.
Some proponents of this view cite the destructions of Tyre, Persepolis, and Gaza as examples of atrocities, and argue that Alexander preferred to fight rather than negotiate.
It is further claimed, in response to the view that Alexander was generally tolerant of the cultures of those whom he conquered, that his attempts at cultural fusion were severely practical and that he never actually admired Persian art or culture.
To this way of thinking, Alexander was, first and foremost, a general rather than a statesman.
Alexander's character also suffers from the interpretation of historians who themselves are subject to the bias and idealisms of their own time.
Good examples are Peter Green, who wrote after World War II and for whom Alexander did little that was not inherently selfish or ambition-driven.
Tarn wrote in an age where world conquest and warrior-heroes were acceptable, even encouraged, whereas Green wrote with the backdrop of the Holocaust and nuclear weapons.
In addition to cuneiform evidence from Babylonia that is still being discovered and translated, there are numerous Greek and Latin texts about Alexander.
The primary sources, texts written by people who actually knew Alexander or who gathered information from men who served with Alexander, are all lost, apart from a few inscriptions and some letter-fragments of dubious authenticity.
Contemporaries who wrote full accounts of his life include the historian Aristobulus, Nearchus, and Onesicritus.
Another influential account is by Cleitarchus who, while not a direct witness of Alexander's expedition, used sources which had just been published.
His work was to be the backbone of that of Timagenes, who heavily influenced many historians whose work still survives.
None of these works survives, but we do have later works based on these primary sources.
The five main surviving accounts are by Arrian, Curtius, Plutarch, Diodorus, and Justin.
The "problem of the sources" is the main concern (and chief delight) of Alexander-historians.
Arrian is mostly interested in the military aspects, while Curtius veers to a more private and darker Alexander.
Plutarch can't resist a good story, light or dark.
One account says that Hephaestion laid a wreath on the tomb of Patroclus; another that Alexander laid one on the tomb of Achilles, calling him a lucky man, in that he had Homer to proclaim his deeds and preserve his memory.
And well might Alexander envy Achilles this piece of good fortune; for in his own case there was no equivalent: his one failure, the single break, as it were, in the long chain of his successes, was that he had no worthy chronicler to tell the world of his exploits.
Alexander was a legend in his own time.
His court historian Callisthenes portrayed the sea in Cilicia as drawing back from him in proskynesis.
Writing after Alexander's death, another participant, Onesicritus, went so far as to invent a tryst between Alexander and Thalestris, queen of the mythical Amazons.
A Mongolian version is also extant.
Some believe that, excepting certain religious texts, it is the most widely-read work of pre-modern times.
Alexander is also a character of Greek folklore (and other regions), as the protagonist of 'apocryphal' tales of bravery.
Alexander was briefly mentioned in the first Book of the Maccabees Chapter 1, verses 1-7.
He was described as Alexander son of Philip the Macedonian.
He defeated Darius, king of the Persians and succeeded him as king (Alexander previously became king of Greece).
He gathered a strong army and ruled over countries and nations.
He fell sick and perceived that he was dying so he summoned his officers and divided his kingdom among them.
After Alexander reigned for twelve years, he died.
Alexander the Great sometimes is identified in Persian and Arabic traditions sources as Dhul-Qarnayn, Arabic for the "Two-Horned One", possibly a reference to the appearance of a horn-headed figure that appears on coins minted during his rule and later imitated in ancient Middle Eastern coinage.
Accounts of Dhul-Qarnayn appear in the Qur'an, and so may refer to Alexander.
References to Alexander may also be found in the Persian tradition.
The same traditions from the Pseudo-Callisthenes were combined in Persia with Sassanid Persian ideas about Alexander in the Iskandarnamah.
In this tradition, Alexander built a wall of iron and melted copper in which Gog and Magog are confined.
Some Muslim scholars disagree that Alexander was Dhul-Qarnayn.
There are actually some theories that Dhul-Qarnayn was a Persian King with a vast Empire as well, possibly King Cyrus the Great.
The reason being is Dhul-Qarnayn is described in the Holy Quran as a monotheist believer who worshipped Allah (God).
This, it is claimed, removes Alexander as a candidate for Dhul-Qarnayn as Alexander was a polytheist.
Yet contemporaneous Persian nobles would have practiced Zurvanism, thus disqualifying them on the same basis.
The accounts after that, still in epic poetry, portray historical figures.
Alexander is described as a child of a Persian king, Daraaye Darab (the last in the list of kings in the book whose names do not match historical kings), and a daughter of Philip, a Roman king.
However, due to problems in the relationship between the Persian king and Philip's daughter, she is sent back to Rome.
Alexander is born to her afterwards, but Philip claims him as his own son and keeps the true identity of the child secret.
Around seventy towns or outposts are claimed to have been founded by Alexander.
Diodorus Siculus credits Alexander with planning cities on a grid plan.
He is probably best-remembered for developing the theory of general semantics.
He came from an engineers for generations.
He learned Polish at home and Russian in the schools; and having a French governess and a German governess, he became fluent in four languages as a child.
As an adult, he chose to train as an engineer.
The essence of Korzybski's work was the view that human beings are limited in what they know by (1) the structure of their nervous systems, and (2) the structure of their languages.
Human beings cannot experience the world directly, but only through their "abstractions" (nonverbal impressions or "gleanings" derived from the nervous system, and verbal indicators expressed and derived from language).
Our understanding of what is going on sometimes lacks "similarity of structure" with what is actually going on.
He stressed training in awareness of abstracting, using techniques that he had derived from his study of mathematics and science.
One day, Korzybski was giving a lecture to a group of students, and he suddenly interrupted the lesson in order to retrieve a packet of biscuits, wrapped in white paper, from his briefcase.
He muttered that he just had to eat something, and he asked the students on the seats in the front row, if they would also like a biscuit.
A few students took a biscuit.
Korzybski, while he took a second one.
The students were chewing vigorously.
Then he tore the white paper from the biscuits, in order to reveal the original packaging.
On it was a big picture of a dog's head and the words "Dog Cookies".
The students looked at the package, and were shocked.
Two of them wanted to throw up, put their hands in front of their mouths, and ran out of the lecture hall to the toilet.
The player controls a hyperspace, causing it to disappear and reappear in a random location on the screen (with the risk of self-destructing or appearing on top of an asteroid).
Each stage starts with a few asteroids drifting in random directions on the screen.
Once the screen has been cleared of all asteroids and flying saucers, a new set of large asteroids appears.
The number of asteroids increases each round up to a maximum of twelve.
The game is over when the player has lost all of his/her lives.
The maximum possible score in this game is 99,990 points, after which it "rolls over" back to zero.
On some early versions of the game, it was also possible to hide the ship in the score area indefinitely without being hit by asteroids.
As the 6502 by itself was too slow to control both the game play and the vector hardware at the same time, the latter task was delegated to the DVG.
The original design concepts of the DVG came out of Atari's off-campus research lab in Grass Valley, CA, in 1978.
The prototype was given to engineer Howard Delman, who refined it, produced it, and then added additional features for Atari's first vector game, "Lunar Lander".
More memory was added, as was the circuitry for the many sounds in the game.
That original Asteroids prototype board still exists, and is currently in Delman's personal collection.
For each picture frame, the 6502 writes graphics commands for the DVG into a defined area of RAM (the vector RAM), and then asks the DVG to draw the corresponding vector image on the screen.
The DVG reads the commands and generates appropriate signals for the vector monitor.
There are DVG commands for positioning the cathode ray, for drawing a line to a specified destination, calling a subroutine with further commands, and so on.
Another 2 KB of vector ROM contains the descriptions of the main graphical elements (rocks, saucer, player's ship, explosion pictures, letters, and digits) in the form of DVG commands.
Cosmos system, but the system never saw release.
Atari has also used the game for its other late '90s and 2000's anthology series.
Essentially, if one looks for this game, one will be able to find it somewhere.
Xbox Live Arcade for the Xbox 360 on November 28, 2007, with an option for special revamped HD graphics and a high-speed "throttle monkey" mode.
On November 13, 1982, 15-year-old Scott Safran, of Cherry Hill, NJ, set a world record of 41,336,440 points on the classic arcade game Asteroids.
He beat the 40,101,910 point score set by Leo Daniels of Carolina Beach on February 6, 1982.
To congratulate Safran on his accomplishment, the Twin Galaxies Intergalactic Scoreboard searched for him for more than fifteen years, until 2002, when it was discovered that he had died in an accident in 1989.
In a special ceremony in Philadelphia on April 27, 2002, Walter Day of Twin Galaxies presented a special award to the surviving members of Scott Safran's family, commemorating the Asteroid Champion's achievement.
Comedian Jim Norton (Frunkus) once got the record score for the game Asteroids.
This led him to have his picture on a local New Jersey paper.
In July of 1982, two men in Hyde Park, NY played on one quarter and got a score of 48,830,930.
They actually quit the game because they were just too run down.
Matthew Collier and John Denver both of Hyde Park at the time, alternated every 100,000 pts which took about 12 minutes, trying to briefly nap on their off time.
The lengthy session took 84 hours, as they played in a laundry mat after convincing the owner to allow them to lock themselves in at night.
Both men were only 17 at the time, and tried to contact Guinness, but they seemed uninterested at the time, because so many records were falling so often in the video game field.
They did make the local radio and newspapers, but that was the extent of their 15 minutes of fame.
The order must include the family Asparagaceae, but other families included in the order have varied markedly between different classifications.
The Wettstein system, last revision of 1935, did not recognise such an order, and placed many of the plants involved in order Liliiflorae in class Monocotyledones.
The order will of necessity contain the family Alismataceae.
Thus circumscribed, the order contains about 165 genera in 14 families, with a cosmopolitan distribution.
Most of the families are composed of herbaceous plants, commonly found in aquatic environments.
The flowers are usually arranged in inflorescences, and the mature seeds lack endosperm.
The biggest departure from earlier systems (see below) is the inclusion of family Araceae.
By its inclusion the order has grown enormously in number of species.
The family Araceae alone accounts for about a hundred genera, totalling over two thousand species.
The rest of families together contain just about five hundred species.
The Cronquist subclass Alismatidae conformed fairly closely to the order Alismatales as circumscribed by APG, minus the family Araceae.
The Dahlgren superorder Alismatanae conformed fairly closely to the order Alismatales as circumscribed by APG, minus the family Araceae.
The Wettstein system, last version in 1935, and the Engler system, update in 1964, used the name Helobiae for the order.
Inflorescence of a wild carrot, "Daucus carota", in the Apiaceae family.
The families given at right are typical of newer classifications, though there is some slight variation, and in particular the Torriceliaceae may be divided.
These families are placed within the asterid group of dicotyledons.
Under this definition well-known members include carrots, celery, parsley, and ivy.
Under the Cronquist system, only the Apiaceae and Araliaceae were included here, and the restricted order was placed among the rosids rather than the asterids.
The Pittosporaceae were placed within the Rosales, and the other forms within the family Cornaceae.
The Asterales can be characterized on the morphological and molecular level.
Synapomorphies include the oligosaccharide inulin as the nutrients storage, and the stamens are usually aggregated densely around the style or even are fused into a tube around it.
The last property is probably associated with the plunger (or secondary) pollination, which is common among the families of the order.
The remaining families count together for less than 500 species.
The two large families are cosmopolitic with center of mass in the northern hemisphere, and the smaller ones are usually confined to Australia and the adjacent areas, or sometimes South America.
The Asterales order probably originated in the Cretaceous on the supercontinent Gondwana, in the area which is now Australia and Asia.
Asia was mostly Laurasia, not Gondwana, so what is meant here?
Although most extant species are herbaceous, the examination of the basal families in the order suggests that the common ancestor of the order was an arborescent plant.
Fossil evidence of the Asterales is rare and belongs to rather recent epochs, so the precise estimation of the order's age is quite difficult.
An Oligocene pollen is known for Asteraceae and Goodeniaceae, and seeds from Oligocene and Miocene are known for Menyanthaceae and Campanulaceae respectively.
Small solar system body.
The first asteroid to be discovered, binary systems.
Current estimates put the total number of asteroids above 1 km in diameter in the solar system to be between 1.1 and 1.9 million.
Asteroids are commonly classified according to two criteria: the characteristics of their orbits, and features of their reflectance spectrum.
Many asteroids have been placed in groups and families based on their orbital characteristics.
It is customary to name a group of asteroids after the first member of that group to be discovered.
For a full listing of known asteroid groups and families, see minor planet and asteroid family.
This list has since been expanded to include a number of other asteroid types.
The number of types continues to grow as more asteroids are studied.
Note that the proportion of known asteroids falling into the various spectral types does not necessarily reflect the proportion of all asteroids that are of that type; some types are easier to detect than others, biasing the totals.
However, the correspondence between spectral class and composition is not always very good, and there are a variety of classifications in use.
This has led to significant confusion.
While asteroids of different spectral classifications are likely to be composed of different materials, there are no assurances that asteroids within the same taxonomic class are composed of similar materials.
At present, the spectral classification based on several coarse resolution spectroscopic surveys in the 1990s is still the standard.
Asteroid discovery methods have drastically improved over the past two centuries.
This task required that hand-drawn sky charts be prepared for all stars in the zodiacal band down to an agreed-upon limit of faintness.
On subsequent nights, the sky would be charted again and any moving object would, hopefully, be spotted.
The expected motion of the missing planet was about 30 seconds of arc per hour, readily discernible by observers.
Ironically, the first asteroid, Ceres, the Roman goddess of agriculture.
Three other asteroids (2 Pallas, 3 Juno, and 4 Vesta) were discovered over the next few years, with Vesta found in 1807.
After eight more years of fruitless searches, most astronomers assumed that there were no more and abandoned any further searches.
However, Henry brothers and Auguste Charlois.
In 1891, however, Max Wolf pioneered the use of astrophotography to detect asteroids, which appeared as short streaks on long-exposure photographic plates.
This drastically increased the rate of detection compared with previous visual methods: Wolf alone discovered 248 asteroids, beginning with 323 Brucia, whereas only slightly more than 300 had been discovered up to that point.
Still, a century later, only a few thousand asteroids were identified, numbered and named.
It was known that there were many more, but most astronomers did not bother with them, calling them "vermin of the skies".
Until 1998, asteroids were discovered by a four-step process.
First, a region of the sky was photographed by a wide-field telescope (usually an Astrograph).
Pairs of photographs were taken, typically one hour apart.
Multiple pairs could be taken over a series of days.
Second, the two films of the same region were viewed under a stereoscope.
Any body in orbit around the Sun would move slightly between the pair of films.
Under the stereoscope, the image of the body would appear to float slightly above the background of stars.
Third, once a moving body was identified, its location would be measured precisely using a digitizing microscope.
The location would be measured relative to known star locations.
The final step of discovery is to send the locations and time of observations to Brian Marsden of the Minor Planet Center.
Marsden has computer programs that compute whether an apparition ties together previous apparitions into a single orbit.
If so, the object gets a number.
The observer of the first apparition with a calculated orbit is declared the discoverer, and he gets the honor of naming the asteroid (subject to the approval of the International Astronomical Union) once it is numbered.
There is increasing interest in identifying asteroids whose orbits cross Atens.
The AU of the Earth in 1937.
Astronomers began to realize the possibilities of Earth impact.
Two events in later decades increased the level of alarm: the increasing acceptance of Jupiter.
The U.S. military also declassified the information that its military satellites, built to detect nuclear explosions, had detected hundreds of upper-atmosphere impacts by objects ranging from one to 10 metres across.
All of these considerations helped spur the launch of highly efficient automated systems that consist of Charge-Coupled Device (CCD) cameras and computers directly connected to telescopes.
Since 1998, a large majority of the asteroids have been discovered by such automated systems.
The LINEAR system alone has discovered 84,764 asteroids, as of August 28, 2007.
Between all of the automated systems, 4711 near-Earth asteroids have been discovered including over 600 more than 1 km in diameter.
Asteroids are awarded with an official number once their orbits are confirmed.
With the increasing rapidity of asteroid discovery, asteroids are currently being awarded six-figure numbers.
The switch from five figures to six figures arrived with the publication of the Minor Planet Circular (MPC) of October 19, 2005, which saw the highest numbered asteroid jump from 99947 to 118161.
The first few asteroids were named after figures from Graeco-Roman mythology, but as such names started to run out, others were used &mdash;famous people, literary characters, the names of the discoverer's wives, children, and even television characters.
The first asteroid to be given a non-mythological name was 20 Massalia, named after the city of Marseilles.
For some time only female (or feminized) names were used; Alexander von Humboldt was the first man to have an asteroid named after him, but his name was feminized to 54 Alexandra.
This unspoken tradition lasted until 334 Chicago was named; even then, oddly feminised names show up in the list for years afterward.
As the number of asteroids began to run into the hundreds, and eventually the thousands, discoverers began to give them increasingly frivolous names.
The first hints of this were IAU subsequently banned pet names as sources, eccentric asteroid names are still being proposed and accepted, such as 4321 Zero, 6042 Cheshirecat, 9007 James Bond, 13579 Allodd, 24680 Alleven, 128036 Rafaelnadal or 26858 Misterrogers.
Asteroid naming is not always a free-for-all: there are some types of asteroid for which rules have developed about the sources of names.
For instance Trojans after heroes from the Trojan War, and trans-Neptunian objects after underworld spirits.
The first few asteroids discovered were assigned symbols like the ones traditionally used to designate Earth, the Moon, the Sun and planets.
The symbols quickly became ungainly, hard to draw and recognise.
By the end of 1851 there were 15 known asteroids, each (except one) with its own symbol(s).
Until the age of space travel, asteroids were merely pinpricks of light in even the largest telescopes and their shapes and terrain remained a mystery.
The first Voyager probes of the small moons of the gas giants.
The first true asteroid to be photographed in close-up was Jupiter.
The first dedicated asteroid probe was NEAR Shoemaker, which photographed 253 Mathilde in 1997, before entering into orbit around 433 Eros, finally landing on its surface in 2001.
In September 2007 NASA launched the Dawn Mission, which will orbit 1 Ceres and 4 Vesta in 2011-2015, with its mission possibly then extended to 2 Pallas.
It has been suggested that asteroids might be used in the future as a source of materials which may be rare or exhausted on earth (asteroid mining), or materials for constructing space habitats (see Colonization of the asteroids).
Materials that are heavy and expensive to launch from earth may someday be mined from asteroids and used for space manufacturing and construction.
Asteroids and asteroid belts are a staple of science fiction stories.
Asteroids play several potential roles in science fiction: as places which human beings might colonize; as resources for extracting minerals; as a hazard encountered by spaceships travelling between two other points; and as a threat to life on Earth due to potential impacts.
I stumbled on it the Internet one day and it was so cool because I could understand it.
Not everyday you discover you know another language!
It was designed with that goal in mind.
There seems to be some confusion here.
Assistive technology is technology that is used in addition to regular technology to enable a disabled user to access, ideally with normal speed and in an integrated manner, what non-disabled people can access without such technology.
For using the internet, asistive technology includes voice-enabled web browsersand read-back devices, braille readers and output devices, voice inout browsers, magnigying screen readers, etc.
The other side of the coin is what web developers can to do make their content more accessible.
In software design, this is called universal access design.
This does not necessarily require the disabled user to acquire any assistive technology.
Items included here are keyboard-only navigation, possible in Microsoft Windows and most of their other software, as well as, the Opera browser, proper formating of links, atlernate attributes in tags for images etc.
Many of these design principles, however, do assume some assistive technology on the part of the disabled user, and try to insure that such assistive technology is allowed to function properly.
For exampled, for a blind internet user, it is assumed that he/she will be using some assistive technology like a voice enabled browser, at least.
Then, some of these principles of universal design, like alternate attributes on images, do assume assistive technology.
There are always additional advantages to such design, however, There are people with old enough, or weak enough computers that they can only access text only content.
For them, such explanations of what an image describes is useful too.
In summmary, assistive technology should only include technology that supplements what the non-disabled user needs to access software, or even their computers at all.
Another example-for those with with extreme mobility-impairments, breath-enabled controls for computers are available.
The article text has not been changed in any way; Some of these suggestions may be wrong, some may be right.
The example stating, "the modern telephone is, except for the deaf, universally accessible" misses the mark, especially when one considers the following example, the calculator.
Further, the same solution offered for calculator access is available for telephones: voice-based control.
Yes, if I had the time, I'd edit the page right now.
Assistive Technology is becoming very evident in K-12 Education.
With the passage of IDEA 1997, all students with disabilities that are eligble for special education are required to be considered for assistive technology.
In this way, assistive technology can be used to help compensate for skills that are yet to be developed by an individual student so that the student can continue to access the content of the school curriculum.
I agree that universal design should be a separate topic, and so should be telecare.
Telecare for the person being monitored is not assistive technology-- but rather a medical technology used to monitor them from a remote location.
However, if there is a medical provider that is unable to travel due to their disability, then perhaps telecare could be considered an assistive technology to the healthcare provider.
Telephones are not universally accessible to people with visual impairments either--they have various lights, displays, buttons other than the number pad, unique number pad arrangements, etc.
I am taking that "universally accessible" phrase out.
That's a good point.
Two things: (1) They'll get added back regularly (not that that makes you wrong, just a problem) and (2) If we winnow it, what criteria do we use?
Agree a list?
The last seems the most fruitful, but it may be heated.
Okay, I've been through all the links: most are spam.
In most United States jurisdictions a defendant is allowed the opportunity to allocute &mdash; that is, explain himself &mdash; before sentence is passed.
Some jurisdictions hold this as an absolute right, and in its absence, a sentence may potentially be overturned, with the result that a new sentencing hearing must be held.
Allocution is sometimes required of a defendant who pleads guilty to a crime in a closure for victims or their families.
In principle, it removes any doubt as to the exact nature of the defendant's guilt in the matter.
It will be used by the Clerk of Arraigns or another formal associate of the Court.
In many other jurisdictions it is for the defense lawyer to mitigate on his client's behalf, and the defendant himself will rarely have the opportunity to speak.
Allocution refers to the one way dissemination of information through a media channel.
The term allocution differs from distribution as distribution implies that the original party loses some kind of control over the information.
One party can tell many others a piece of information without losing it themselves, the original information store never becomes empty.
The original party holds all control over the information.
They decide when, how and how much information to give to the information services consumer.
The consumer has no control over in this model.
Examples of this type of communication include radio and traditional television programs such as the news.
In American hearsay, admission of an unsupported affidavit as evidence is unusual (especially if the affiant is not available for cross-examination) with regard to material facts which may be dispositive of the matter at bar.
Affidavits from persons who are dead or otherwise incapacitated, or who cannot be located or made to appear may be accepted by the court, but usually only in the presence of corroborating evidence.
An affidavit which reflected a better grasp of the facts close in time to the actual events may be used to refresh a witness' recollection.
Materials used to refresh recollection are admissible as evidence.
If the affiant is a party in the case, the affiant's opponent may be successful in having the affidavit admitted as evidence, as statements by a party-opponent are not considered hearsay.
Some types of motions will not be accepted by the court unless accompanied by an independent sworn statement or other evidence, in support of the need for the motion.
In such a case, a court will accept an affidavit from the filing attorney in support of the motion, as certain assumptions are made, to wit: The affidavit in place of sworn testimony promotes judicial economy.
The lawyer is an officer of the court and knows that a false swearing by him, if found out, could be grounds for severe penalty up to and including disbarment.
The lawyer if called upon would be able to present independent and more detailed evidence to prove the facts set forth in his affidavit.
Affidavits are made by writing "I (state full name) of (insert address) on this date (date in words) make oath and say as follows...".
After this has been written, the facts to be sworn are listed, in prose or in bullet points.
The document is then taken to a commissioner for oaths (most solicitors are also commissioners for oaths).
The commissioner for oaths then asks the witness to swear on a holy book and to verify what has been stated.
Affidavits are made in a similar way as to England and Wales, although "make oath" is sometimes omitted.
A declaration may be substituted for an affidavit in most cases for those opposed to swearing oaths.
The person making the affidavit is known as the deponent but does not sign the affidavit.
The stars of the constellation Aries can be connected in an alternative way, which graphically shows the ram running (or jumping).
The ram's tail consists of the stars 35 Ari, 41 Ari, and 39 Ari.
The Western sidereal zodiac (April 15 - May 15).
Aquarius is one of the oldest recognized constellations along the Eridanus, etc.
Sometimes, the river Eridanus is depicted spilling from Aquarius' watering pot.
There are three Messier catalog: the globular clusters Messier 2, Messier 72, and the open cluster Messier 73.
The best-known myth identifies Aquarius with Crater is sometimes identified as his cup.
Aquarius generally resembles the figure of a man, and when considering fainter humanly visible stars, it takes on the image of a man with a bucket from which is pouring a stream.
Aquarius was also identified as the pourer of the waters which flooded the earth in the Eridanus was sometimes identified as being a river poured out by Aquarius.
It may also, together with the constellation Pegasus, be part of the origin of the myth of the Mares of Diomedes, which forms one of The Twelve Labours of Heracles.
Its association with pouring out rivers, and the nearby constellation of Capricornus, may be the source of the myth of the Augean stable, which forms another of the labours.
Individuals born under the Aquarius sign are, by western astrologers, thought to have a creative, progressive (sometimes rebellious), and independent character.
According to astrology-inspired New Age mythology, and according to the gospel of The 5th Dimension, we're now living in the Age of Aquarius.
Each Age is 2000 years long, approximately, with the Precession of the Equinoxes marking the beginning and end of each Age.
The stars of the constellation Aquarius can be connected in an alternative way, which graphically shows the water bearer running while holding a vessel from which water is spilling.
Water is being poured from the vessel in a pair of streamlines.
Please do not wikify Wikipe-tan, doing so will be a cross namespace link, a practice frowned upon in the main article space.
For more info see WP:SELF.
By the 1930s, animation became an alternative format of storytelling compared to the underdeveloped live-action industry in Japan.
Unlike America, the live-action industry in Japan remained a small market and suffered from budgeting, location, and casting restrictions.
The lack of Western-looking actors, for example, made it next to impossible to shoot films set in Europe, America, or fantasy worlds that do not naturally involve Japan.
Animation allowed artists to create any characters and settings.
In the 1980s, anime became more accepted in the mainstream in Japan (although less than manga), and experienced a boom in production.
Following a few successful adaptations of anime in overseas markets in the 1980s, anime gained increased acceptance in those markets in the 1990s and even more in the 2000s.
In general, the term now only appears in nostalgic contexts.
In Japan, manga can refer to both animation and comics (although the use of manga to refer to animation is mostly restricted to non-fans).
Among English speakers, manga usually has the stricter meaning of "Japanese comics".
An alternate explanation is that it is due to the prominence of Manga Entertainment, a distributor of anime to the US and UK markets.
Because Manga Entertainment originated in the UK the use of the term is common outside of Japan.
As an art form, anime places a large emphasis towards visual styles.
They can vary from artist to artist or by studio to studio.
While different titles and different artists have their own artistic styles, many stylistic elements have become so common such that they are described as being definitive of anime in general.
These elements have been given names of their own.
Previous Text used under "Animation Process" See:Discussion.
Osamu Tezuka adapted and simplified many Disney animation precepts to reduce the budget costs and number of frames in the production.
This was intended to be a temporary measure to allow him to produce one episode every week with an inexperienced animation staff.
Some animators in Japan overcome production budgets by utilizing different techniques than the Disney or the old Tezuka/Otsuka methods of animating anime.
Due to reduced frame rate, several still shots and scrolling backgrounds, more time can be spent on detail in each drawing.
Will need to work these parts in here somehow, otherwise, omit most of it --> Another stylistic element is that use of lines.
In anime the lines are often influenced more from a stylistic look from brush work, rather than that of the calligrapher's pen.
This may be due to the fact that Japanese was traditionally written with a brush and has had a large influence on Japanese art, thus how the lines are treated tend to be different from the Western art.
Western lettering was done with a calligrapher's pen.
Anime also tends to borrow many elements from manga including text in the background, and borrowing panel layouts from the manga as well.
For example, an opening may employ manga panels to tell the story, or to dramatize a point for humorous effect.
This is best demonstrated in the anime "Kare Kano".
Body proportions emulated in anime come from proportions of the human body.
The height of the head is considered as the base unit of proportion.
Head heights can vary as long as the remainder of the body remain proportional.
Most anime characters are about seven to eight heads tall, and extreme heights are set around nine heads tall.
Variations to proportion can be modded.
Chibi or super deformed characters feature a non-proportionally small body compared to the head.
Sometimes specific body parts, like legs, are shortened or elongated for added emphasis.
Mostly chibi are three or four heads tall.
Some anime works like Crayon Shin-chan completely disregard these proportions.
It is enough such that it resembles a Western cartoon.
For exaggeration, certain body features are increased in proportion.
Coloring is added to give eyes, particularly the cornea, some depth.
The depth is accomplished by applying variable color shading.
Generally, a mixture of a light shade, the tone color, and a dark shade is used.
However, not all anime have large eyes.
For example Hayao Miyazaki is known for not having large eyes and having realistic hair colors on his characters.
In addition many other productions also have been known to use smaller eyes.
This design tends to have more resemblance to traditional Japanese art.
Some characters have even smaller eyes, where simple black dots are used.
However, many western audiences associate anime with large detailed eyes as many shounen or boy comics and shoujo young girl comics are the comics being imported over the Josei or women's comics and adult, but not pornographic comics.
A wide variety of facial expressions are used by characters to denote moods and thoughts.
Anime uses a different set of facial expressions in comparison to western animation.
Other stylistic elements are common as well; often in comedic anime, characters that are shocked or surprised will perform a "face fault", in which they display an extremely exaggerated expression.
Angry characters may exhibit a "vein" or "stressmark" effect, where lines representing bulging veins will appear on their forehead.
Angry women will sometimes summon a mallet from nowhere and strike someone with it, leading to the concept of Hammerspace and cartoon physics.
Male characters will develop a bloody nose around their female love interests (typically to indicate arousal, based on an old wives' tale).
Embarrassed characters either produce a massive sweat-drop (which has become one of the most widely recognized stereotype motifs of anime) or produce a visibly red blush beneath the eyes, especially as a manifestation of repressed romantic feelings.
While common, the use of face faults is optional.
Some anime, usually with political plots and other more serious subject matters, have abandoned the use of face faults such as Gundam Wing and Teknoman.
Some non-human characters further diversify the array of characters.
The typical style for non-humans is a dramatization of size for most, or a drastic shrinkage for others.
Typical spirits and demons as well as robots and some animals will be shown out of proportion and sometimes the size of skyscrapers and buildings.
Often for the purpose of giving the impression of great power or often synched with mecha-anime series in which the main character uses a giant robot to defeat another giant robot or creature.
The basics of anime is based on traditional animation.
While anime is considered separate from cartoons, anime still uses multiple still images in rapid succession to produce the animated visual effect.
Like all animation, the production processes of storyboarding, voice acting, character design, cel production, etc.
With improvements in computer technology, computer animation increased the efficiency of the whole production process.
Anime is often considered a form of limited animation.
That means that stylistically, even in bigger productions the conventions of limited animation are used to fool the eye into thinking there is more movement than there is.
Many of the techniques used a comprised with cost-cutting measures while working under a set budget.
Anime scenes place emphasis on achieving three-dimensional views.
Backgrounds depict the scenes' atmosphere.
For example, anime often puts emphasis on changing seasons, as can be seen in numerous anime, such as Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya are based on various locations within the suburb of Nishinomiya, Hyogo, Japan.
Anime has many genres typically found in any mass media form.
Such genres include science fiction.
Most anime includes content from several different genres, as well as a variety of thematic elements.
Thus, some series may be categorized under multiple genres.
For example, "Neon Genesis Evangelion" might be considered to fall into the genres of post-apocalyptic, science fiction, mecha, and drama.
A show may have a seemingly simple surface plot, but at the same time may feature a far more complex, deeper storyline and character development.
It is not uncommon for an action themed anime to also involve humor, romance, and even social commentary.
The same can be applied to a romance themed anime in that it may involve an action element, or in some cases brutal violence.
The following is a list of the major genres and designations that are specific to anime and manga.
To minimize list size, please limit to 2 examples.
Demographic describes the intended target audience.
Anime distribution companies handled the five regions.
Some editing of cultural references may occur to better follow the references of the non-Japanese culture.
Certain companies may remove any objectionable content, complying with domestic law.
This "light touch" approach to localization has favored viewers formerly unfamiliar with anime.
With the advent of VHS cassette, in which separate VHS media were used and with each VHS cassette priced the same as a single DVD.
The "light touch" approach also applies to DVD releases as they often include both the dubbed audio and the original Japanese audio with subtitles, typically unedited.
In Japan, major national TV networks, such as UHF.
In the United States, Cable TV channels such as Cartoon Network, Disney, Sci-Fi, and others dedicate some of their time slots for anime.
Then the Anime Network specifically shows anime.
Sony based Animax and Disney's Jetix channel broadcast anime within many countries in the world.
The Internet had played a significant role in the exposure of anime beyond Japan.
Prior to the 1990s, anime has had limited exposure beyond Japan's borders.
Coincidentally, as the popularity of the Internet grew, so did for anime.
Much of the fandom of anime grew through the Internet.
The combination of internet communities and increasing amounts of anime material, from video to images, helped spur the growth of fandom.
As the Internet gained more widespread use, Internet advertising revenues grew from 1.6 billion yen to over 180 billion yen between 1995 and 2005.
Anime has become commercially profitable in western countries as early commercially successful western adaptations of anime, such as "Astro Boy", have revealed.
This appears to be a student paper that was not peer reviewed or published in a journal or conference proceeding.
The phenomenal success of spin-off anime series that, first broadcast in the late 1990s, is still running worldwide to this day.
In doing so, anime has made significant impacts upon Western culture.
Since the 19th century, many Westerners have expressed a Japanese Language Profiency test was devised to meet increasing demand.
This intent on satirizing anime is the springboard for the basic premise of Kappa Mikey, a Nicktoons Network original cartoon.
Even cliches normally found in anime are parodied in Perfect Hair Forever.
Links that have not been verified WILL BE DELETED.
Province of Ankara.
Centrally located in muscat grapes.
Ankara is situated upon a steep and rocky hill, which rises 150 m above the plain on the left bank of the "Enguri Su", a tributary of the Ottoman archaeological sites.
It has a harsh, dry continental climate with cold, snowy winters and hot, dry summers.
Rainfall occurs mostly during the spring and autumn.
The hill which overlooks the city is crowned by the ruins of the old castle, which adds to the picturesqueness of the view, but only a few historic structures surrounding the old citadel have survived to our date.
The region's vibrant history can be traced back to the Turks (Seljuk Empire then Ottoman Empire and then Turkey).
In 278 BC, the city, along with the rest of central Anatolia, was occupied by the Celtic race of Galatians, who were the first to make Ankara one of their main tribal centres, the headquarters of the Tectosages tribe.
The Celtic element was probably relatively small in numbers; a warrior aristocracy which ruled over Phrygian-speaking peasants.
However, the Celtic language continued to spoken in Galatia for many centuries.
The city was subsequently conquered by Augustus in 25 BC and passed under the control of the Roman Empire.
Now the capital city of the Roman province of Galatia, Ancyra continued to be a center of great commercial importance.
Augustus decided to make Ancyra one of three main administrative centres in central Anatolia.
Two other Galatian tribal centres, Tavium near Yozgat, and Pessinus (Balhisar) to the west, near Sivrihisar, continued to be reasonably important settlements in the Roman period, but it was Ancyra that grew into a grand metropolis.
An estimated 200,000 people lived in Ancyra in good times during the Roman Empire, a far greater number than was to be the case after the fall of the Roman Empire until the early twentieth century.
Ancyra's importance rested on the fact was that it was the junction point where the roads in northern Anatolia running north-south and east-west intersected.
The great imperial road running east passed through Ankara and a succession of emperors and their armies came this way.
They were not the only ones to use the Roman highway network, which was equally convenient for invaders.
In the second half of the 3rd century, Ancyra was invaded in rapid succession by the Goths coming from the west (who rode far into the heart of Cappadocia, taking slaves and pillaging) and later by the Arabs.
The town was reincorporated into the Roman Empire under the Emperor Aurelian in 272.
In its heyday, Roman Ankara was a large market and trading center but it also functioned as a major administrative capital, where a high official ruled from the city's Praetorium, a large administrative palace or office.
During the 3rd century, life in Ancyra, as in other Anatolian towns, seems to have become somewhat militarised in response to the invasions and instability of the town.
In this period, like other cities of central Anatolia, Ankara was also undergoing Christianisation.
Early martyrs, about whom little is known, included Proklos and Hilarios who were natives of the otherwise unknown village of Kallippi, near Ancyra, and suffered repression under the emperor Trajan (98-117).
In the 280s AD we hear of Philumenos, a Christian corn merchant from southern Anatolia, being captured and martyred in Ankara, and Eustathius.
Like in other Roman towns, the reign of Diocletian marked the culmination point of repression against Christians.
In 303, Ancyra was one of the towns where the co-Emperors Diocletian and his deputy Galerius launched their anti-Christian persecution.
In Ancyra, their first target was the 38-year-old Bishop of the town, whose name was Clement.
Clement's life describes how he was taken to Rome, then sent back, and forced to undergo many interrogations and hardship before he, and his brother, and various companions were put to death.
Three councils were held in the former capital of Galatia in Asia Minor, during the 4th century.
The first, an orthodox plenary synod, was held in 314, and its 25 disciplinary canons constitute one of the most important documents in the early history of the administration of the Sacrament of Penance.
Nine of them deal with conditions for the reconciliation of the lapsi; the others, with marriage, alienations of church property, etc.
Though paganism was probably tottering in Ancyra in Clement's day, it may still have been the majority religion.
Twenty years later, Christianity and monotheism had taken its place.
Ancyra quickly turned into a Christian city, with a life dominated by monks and priests and theological disputes.
The town council or senate gave way to the bishop as the main local figurehead.
During the middle of the 4th century, Ancyra was involved in the complex theological disputes over the nature of Christ, and a form of Arianism seems to have originated there.
The synod of 358 was a Semi-Arian conciliabulum, presided over by Basil of Ancyra.
It condemned the grosser Arian blasphemies, but set forth an equally heretical doctrine in the proposition that the Son was in all things similar to the Father, but not identical in substance.
In 362-363, the Emperor Julian the Apostate passed through Ancyra on his way to an ill-fated campaign against the Persians, and according to Christian sources, engaged in a persecution of various holy men.
In the later 4th century Ancyra became something of an imperial holiday resort.
After Byzantine reign.
Although Ancyra fell into the hands of several Arab armies numerous times after the 6th century, it remained an important crossroads polis within the Byzantine Empire until the late 11th century.
In 1071, the Turkic ruler, Timur, defeated the Ottomans at the Battle of Ankara in 1402 and captured the city, but in 1403 Ankara was again under Ottoman control.
Following the Ottoman defeat at World War I, the Ottoman capital Istanbul and much of Anatolia were occupied by the Allies, who planned to share these lands between the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Greece, leaving the Turks only a small piece of land in central Asia Minor.
Ankara has experienced a phenomenal growth since it was made Turkey's capital.
It was "a small town of no importance" when it was made the capital of Turkey.
In 1924, the year after the government had moved there, Ankara had about 35,000 residents.
By 1927 there were 44,553 residents and by 1950 the population had grown to 286,781.
By 2007 its population was well over five million.
Ankara has many parks and open spaces mainly established in the early years of the Republic and well maintained and expanded thereafter.
In addition the city is served by several private theatre companies among which Ankara Sanat Tiyatrosu who have their own stage in the city centre is a notable example.
Ankara is noted, within Turkey, for the multitude of universities it is home to.
The subway lines with about 300,000 total daily commuters, and three additional subway lines are under construction.
One of the extreme sports that lives in the city is skateboarding.
There are many popular spots for skateboarding which is active in the city since the second half of the 1980s.
Skaters in Ankara usually meet in the park near the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
The point on Ankara skateboarding is that there is no local or national ban about skateboarding in the whole country and that makes the skaters kick the city flatground having no problems with the officers at all.
According to Ethnologue, 246 million including second language speakers, (1999 est).
These varieties are spoken throughout the Arab world, and "Standard Arabic" is widely studied and known throughout the Islamic world.
Arabic has lent many words to other languages of the Islamic world, as Latin has contributed to most European languages.
And in turn, it has also borrowed from those languages, as well as Persian and Sanskrit from early contacts with their affiliated regions.
During the Middle Ages, Arabic was a major vehicle of culture, especially in science, mathematics and philosophy, with the result that many European languages have also borrowed numerous words from it.
These sometimes differ enough to be mutually incomprehensible.
These dialects are typically unwritten, although a certain amount of literature (particularly plays and poetry) exists in many of them.
They are often used to varying degrees in informal spoken media, such as soap operas and talk shows.
Literary Arabic or classical Arabic is the official language of all Arab countries and is the only form of Arabic taught in schools at all stages.
The sociolinguistic situation of Arabic in modern times provides a prime example of the linguistic phenomenon of diglossia, which is the normal use of two separate varieties of the same language, usually in different social situations.
In the case of Arabic, educated Arabs of any nationality can be assumed to speak both their local dialect and their school-taught literary Arabic.
This diglossic situation facilitates code switching where a speaker switches back and forth between the two varieties of the language, sometimes even within the same sentence.
When educated Arabs of different nationalities engage in conversation (for example, a Moroccan speaking with a Lebanese), both switch into Literary Arabic for the sake of communication.
Like other languages, literary Arabic continues to evolve.
Classical Arabic (especially from the pre-Islamic to the Abbasid period, including Qur'anic Arabic) can be distinguished from Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) as used today.
The influence of Arabic has been most profound in Islamic countries.
Arabic is a major source of vocabulary for languages as diverse as Maltese and Kinubi derive from Arabic, rather than merely borrowing vocabulary or grammar rules.
Arabic is the language of the Qur'an.
Traditionally, Muslims deem it impossible to translate the Qur'an in a way that would reflect its exact meaning in a different language.
Some schools of thought maintain that it should not be translated at all.
Arabic is often associated with Islam, but it is also spoken by Arab Christians, Arab Druze, Mizrahi Jews, and Iraqi Mandaeans.
Most of the world's Muslims do not speak Arabic as their native language but can read the script and recite the words of religious texts.
These are followed by 6th-century BC Lihyanite texts from southeastern Saudi Arabia and the Thamudic texts found throughout Arabia and the Sinai, and not in reality connected with Thamud.
Later come the Safaitic inscriptions beginning in the 1st century BC, and the many Arabic personal names attested in Nabataean inscriptions (which are, however, written in Aramaic).
By the fourth century AD, the Arab kingdoms of the Lakhmids in southern Iraq, the Ghassanids in southern Syria the Kindite Kingdom emerged in Central Arabia.
Their courts were responsible for some notable examples of pre-Islamic Arabic poetry, and for some of the few surviving pre-Islamic Arabic inscriptions in the Arabic alphabet.
Arabic used throughout the North African dialects and those of the Middle East, followed by that between sedentary dialects and the much more conservative Bedouin dialects.
The phonemes below reflect the pronunciation of Standard Arabic.
There are minor variations from country to country.
See IPA phonetic symbols found in this chart.
This is especially characteristic of the Egyptian and southern Yemeni dialects.
Vowels and consonants can be (phonologically) short or long.
Arabic diacritic mark shaddah, which marks lengthened consonants.
Such consonants are held twice as long as short consonants.
Arabic has two kinds of syllables: open syllables (CV) and (CVV) - and closed syllables (CVC), (CVVC) and (CVCC).
Although word stress is not phonemically contrastive in Standard Arabic, it does bear a strong relationship to vowel length, though phonemic, and syllable shape, and correct word stress aids intelligibility.
Doubled consonants count as two consonants: "ma-JAL-la" "magazine", "ma-HALL" "palace".
Some dialects have different stress rules.
In the Cairo (Egyptian Arabic) dialect, for example, a heavy syllable may not carry stress more than two syllables from the end of a word, hence "mad-RA-sa" "school", "qaa-HI-ra" "Cairo".
In some dialects, there may be more or fewer phonemes than those listed in the chart above.
Verbs in Literary Arabic are marked for person (first, second, or third), gender, and number.
They are tense, aspect or a combination of the two.
The perfective aspect is constructed using fused suffixes that combine person, number and gender in a single morpheme, while the imperfective aspect is constructed using a combination of prefixes (primarily encoding person) and suffixes (primarily encoding gender and number).
The moods other than imperative are primarily marked by suffixes (/u/ for indicative, /a/ for subjunctive, no ending for jussive, /an/ for energetic).
The imperative has the endings of the jussive but lacks any prefixes.
The passive is marked through internal vowel changes.
Plural forms for the verb are only used when the subject is not mentioned, or is preceding it, and the feminine singular is used for all non-human plurals.
Nouns, verbs, pronouns and adjectives agree with each other in all respects.
However, non-human plural nouns are grammatically considered to be feminine singular.
Furthermore, a verb in a verb-initial sentence is marked as singular regardless of its semantic number when the subject of the verb is explicitly mentioned as a noun.
The spoken dialects have lost the case distinctions and make only limited use of the dual (it occurs only on nouns and its use is no longer required in all circumstances).
They have lost the mood distinctions other than imperative, but many have since gained new moods through the use of prefixes (most often /bi-/ for indicative vs. unmarked subjunctive).
Modern Standard Arabic maintains the grammatical distinctions of Literary Arabic except that the energetic mood is almost never used; in addition, Modern Standard Arabic sometimes drop the final short vowels that indicate case and mood.
As in many other Semitic languages, Arabic verb formation is based on a (usually) root, which is not a word in itself but contains the semantic core.
The Arabic alphabet derives from the Naskh which is used in print and by computers, and Ruq'ah which is commonly used in handwriting.
After the definitive fixing of the Arabic script around 786, by Khalil ibn Ahmad al Farahidi, many styles were developed, both for the writing down of the Qur'an and other books, and for inscriptions on monuments as decoration.
Unsourced image removed: Kufic font --> Arabic calligraphy has not fallen out of use as calligraphy has in the Western world, and is still considered by Arabs as a major art form; calligraphers are held in great esteem.
Being cursive by nature, unlike the verse of the Qur'an, a Hadith, or simply a proverb, in a spectacular composition.
The composition is often abstract, but sometimes the writing is shaped into an actual form such as that of an animal.
An example is the system used by the US military, IRC, instant messaging and mobile phone text messaging.
Most of these technologies originally had the ability to communicate using the Latin alphabet only, and some of them still do not have the Arabic alphabet as an optional feature.
As a result, Arabic speaking users communicated in these technologies by transliterating the Arabic text using the Latin script, sometime known as IM Arabic.
To handle those Arabic letters that cannot be accurately represented using the Latin script, numerals and other characters were appropriated.
Arabic language interests millions of non-Arabic speakers to learn it to different levels, mainly because it is the language of their holy book, the academic education.
Most of the Arabic language schools are located in the Arab world and some Muslim world countries.
Software and books with tapes are also important part of Arabic learning, as many of Arabic learners may live in places where there are no academic or Arabic language school classes available.
Radio series of Arabic language classes are also provided from some radio stations.
A number of websites on the Internet provide online classes for all levels as a distance education means.
The film stars Oscar-nominated turn as the wild Lt.
Colonel Bill Kilgore.
The movie became notorious in the entertainment press due to its lengthy and troubled production.
In the end, Coppola had to finance the film with his own money.
The film, which opens with no title or credits, is centered on Intelligence officers send him on a mission deep into the remote Cambodian jungle to find a missing United States Army Special Forces colonel.
The movie begins with Willard at his bed, voice over narrating about his experience and why he chose to return to Vietnam after going home, how he has been there for a week.
Two soldiers knock at his door, they come to escort him to Com Sec Intelligence.
They forcefully give him a cold shower because he is drunk and unwilling to move himself.
They take him to Com Sec Intelligence where he is ordered to go upriver into Cambodia, listens to some audio recordings of Kurtz, and is told that Kurtz is wanted dead for unsound strategy and for murdering South Vietnamese Intelligence officers.
He meets with the patrol boat crew that is supposed to take him to his destination and they leave.
The PBR arrives at a 1st Squadron, 9th Cavalry (Aerial Reconnaissance), following a massive and hectic mopping-up operation of a conquered enemy town.
Coppola cameos with a media news crew landing with the troops.
He exhorts Willard to keep moving and not to look at the camera, as if on the set of a real film.
The scene highlights the blurring of the 'war experience', the surreal nature of Vietnam for many of its American participants and of course the deep involvement of the media and entertainment industry in the war.
This last theme runs right through Apocalypse Now culminating in Hopper's 'crazed' photojournalist character at Kurtz's lair.
Kilgore, an avid surfer, learns from one of his men that the beach which marks the opening to the Nung River is perfect for surfing, and thus orders his men to capture the village and the beach.
The beginning of the attack is what may be the film's most famous scene, featuring "Ride of the Valkyries".
The village invasion ends with the soldiers surfing the barely claimed beach amidst sporadic mortar round bursts from the climax of the battle.
Suddenly Willard is quiet, and moves forward, having heard or seen something.
Finally a tiger runs out.
They panic, shoot, and run away.
They get on the boat where the crewmembers there imagined a Viet Cong attack had taken place and were panicking and shooting into nothing.
This is a setup for the tagline "never get out of the boat" allegoric reference to Kurtz's (and possibly a large number of US soliders') descent into darkness and insanity.
After moving upriver, the boat stops at a Military R&R featuring three Playboy Playmates.
The playmates enter in a chopper, and dance briefly before the men rush the stage and attempt to grab them.
They have to be rushed back onto the chopper, which flies away with two men still clinging to its runner.
Moving upriver, chief looks at a sampan.
Since it is policy that patrol boats must inspect all sampans' paper and cargo, Chief orders that it be done.
Willard complains, saying that his mission has priority, but he is ignored.
In the process of an inspection, a woman moves quickly, the men fire.
All die except for one, the woman, who is gravely injured.
Moving upriver there is a surreal stop at the last American outpost defending a bridge.
Almost all of the defending soldiers are black and there do not appear to be any officers.
A VC is yelling broken English insults at the US soldiers.
A soldier with a grenade launcher "cold sights" a single grenade in the direction of the voice and, presumably, kills the VC.
At the end of the scene the bridge is blown up by the Viet Cong.
It is implied that the bridge will be rebuilt the next day just to be destroyed again that night.
In the process of moving upriver they are attacked twice.
Clean dies in a shoot out and Chief Philips dies later by a thrown spear after the boat is showered with arrows and spears.
Willard, Johnson, and Chef eventually arrive at Kurtz's compound: rotting bodies and the stench of blood and decay are everywhere, yet Kurtz's followers seem oblivious to the horrors around them.
Willard is imprisoned and bound roughly in a bamboo tiger cage.
That night, Kurtz comes to the still-bound Willard and places the severed head of Chef in his lap.
Soon thereafter Willard is released from the cage and brought back to Kurtz's temple.
There he remains for days, still watched, but essentially unguarded.
Willard sits and listens to Kurtz read poetry and speak of war.
Previously in the movie, while on the river, the audience is fed pieces of information about Kurtz via the narration of a dossier on Kurtz provided by US Army Intelligence which was being read by Willard.
The picture that emerged was of a brilliant soldier who was being groomed to be a general, but who became mentally unbalanced and brutal.
The cause of Kurtz's eventual break from reality is revealed: the nature of how the Vietnam conflict was fought caused Kurtz to become disillusioned with the military.
Kurtz reveals that years earlier, while he was still following orders, he had taken his battalion to a South Vietnamese village to inoculate the local children for polio.
Soon after they left, the battalion was called back by a crying old man from the village.
What had happened was horrifying: the VC had come and cut off the inoculated arm of every inoculated child.
But after crying, Kurtz, already mentally unstable, finally broke.
He admired the will and brutality of the VC troops (calling the act genius and brilliant) and realized that the Americans could never win the war against this kind of enemy unless they became equally brutal.
The finale involves juxtaposed scenes of a ceremonial slaughtering of a water buffalo, while Willard kills Kurtz with a machete.
However, he finds Johnson, who has since joined the natives, and boards the PBR.
As they float away Kurtz's final words "The Horror, the horror" echo and the screen fades to black.
At the time of its release, many rumors surrounded the ending of "Apocalypse Now".
When Coppola originally organized the ending of the movie, he had two choices.
One involved Willard leading Lance by the hand as everyone in Kurtz's base throws down their weapons, and ends with images of Willard's boat pulling away from Kurtz's compound superimposed over the face of a stone idol which then fades into black.
Another option showed an air strike being called and the base being blown to bits in a spectacular display, consequently killing everyone left at the base.
Because of the confusion over the misinterpreted ending, there are multiple slightly varying versions of the ending credits.
Some TV screenings maintain the explosion footage at the end, others do not, and there are several other versions.
Although inspired by Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness", the film deviates extensively from its source material.
The novella, based on Conrad's real experiences as a steam paddleboat captain in Africa, is set in the Belgian Congo during the 19th century.
Kurtz and Marlow (who is named Willard in the movie) both work for a Belgian trading company that brutally exploits its native African workers.
When Marlow arrives at Kurtz's outpost, he discovers that Kurtz has gone insane and is lording over a small tribe as a god.
In the novella, Marlow is the pilot of a river boat sent to collect ivory from Kurtz's outpost, only gradually becoming infatuated with Kurtz.
In fact, when he discovers Kurtz in terrible health, Marlow makes a concerted effort to bring him home safely.
In the movie, Willard is an assassin dispatched to kill Kurtz.
Coppola argues that many episodes in the film &mdash; the spear and arrow attack on the boat, for example &mdash; respect the spirit of the novella and in particular its critique of the concepts of civilization and progress.
While Coppola replaced interventionism, the message of Conrad's book is still clear.
The film was originally written in the late 1960s by John Milius, who would later direct films such as "The Wind and the Lion" , "Red Dawn" and "Conan the Barbarian".
Milius claims to have been inspired by his film professor's claim that no one had successfully adapted the book "Heart of Darkness," despite attempts by such legendary directors as Orson Welles and Richard Brooks.
The script was originally to be directed by George Lucas, who was then Coppola's protege at American Zoetrope.
Coppola also rewrote the script to accommodate his vision, removing much of Milius's macho dialogue and changing the film's ending.
Milius's original ending showed Kurtz and Willard joining forces to fight an American air assault on Kurtz's compound.
The compound is destroyed in a massive air strike and Kurtz dies of his wounds as Willard looks on.
Coppola dismissed this ending as cartoonish.
The ending would be rewritten multiple times over the course of production and most of Kurtz's role would eventually be improvised by Marlon Brando.
It was said that Coppola had approached legendary B-movie director Roger Corman, Coppola's mentor who gave him his first break as a director about Corman's experience with shooting in the Philippines.
The lead role of Captain Willard was to be played by stood in for Sheen in some of the long shots and would later record some of the film's narration.
The film took over a year to edit, with the editor making an average of three cuts a day, mostly on state-of-the-art editing equipment purchased by Coppola specifically for the production.
The initial rough cut was just over four and a half hours long and had to be severely cut.
A three-hour version was screened as a "work in progress" at the 1979 Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Palme D'Or for best film.
In his eyes, it would be "an event", and he likened it to travelling to Mount Rushmore.
It was, incidentally, exactly the same idea which motivated Richard Wagner's Bayreuth Festival.
Wagner's Parsifal was initially only to be shown in Bayreuth and Bayreuth too was chosen as the festival location because it is more or less in the heart of Germany.
Considering that Wagner's music features so prominently in "Apocalypse Now", Coppola may have been inspired by Wagner's example.
The original released version of the movie was just over two and a half hours long, and was a box-office success in the United States and overseas.
It eventually made over 100 million dollars at the box office.
Coppola re-released the film in 2001 under the title "Apocalypse Now Redux".
The new print was supervised by Vittorio Storaro, who used a color process of his own invention to restore the film for release.
Storaro has claimed that "Apocalypse Now Redux" looks better than the original release print of the film.
The catastrophic production of the film made it symbolic of the dangers of excessive directorial control over major productions.
The shooting was said to have taken a toll on all involved, especially Coppola, both mentally and emotionally.
A water buffalo was slaughtered with a machete for the climactic scene.
It was in fact a real ritual performed by local natives, with Coppola and a film crew on the sidelines as honored guests.
It is said that it was as lauded as it was reviled.
Today, the film is regarded by many as a masterpiece of the New Hollywood era.
It is on the AFI's 100 Years.
Movies list at number 28.
Kilgore's quote "I love the smell of napalm in the morning" was number 12 on the AFI's 100 Years.
Movie Quotes list.
In 2002, "Sight and Sound" magazine polled several critics to name the best film of the last 25 years and "Apocalypse Now" was named number one.
It was also listed as the second best war film by viewers on Channel 4's 100 Greatest War Films, and ranked number 1 on Channel 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die.
You smell that?
Do you smell that?
Nothing else in the world smells like that.
I love the smell of napalm in the morning.
You know, one time we had a hill bombed, for twelve hours.
When it was all over I walked up.
We didn't find one of 'em, not one stinkin' dink body.
The smell, you know that gasoline smell, the whole hill.
Someday this war's gonna end.
The movie poster art for "Apocalypse Now" is by Bob Peak, who is considered an influential artist in the world of movie posters.
Sir "Alfred Joseph Hitchcock" colour era.
Hitchcock was among the most consistently successful and publicly recognizable world directors during his lifetime, and remains one of the best known and most popular of all time.
Famous for his expert and largely unrivalled control of pace and suspense, Hitchcock's films draw heavily on both fear and fantasy, and are known for their droll humour and witticisms.
They often portray innocent people caught up in circumstances beyond their control or understanding.
Hitchcock was born and raised in Leytonstone, London, England.
He began his directing career in the United Kingdom in 1922, but from 1939 he worked primarily in the United States and applied for U.S. citizenship in 1956.
Hitchcock and his family owned a mountaintop estate known as Cornwall Ranch or "Heart o' the Mountain" at the end of Canham Road, high above Scotts Valley, California, from 1940 to 1972.
They bought a second home in late 1942 at 10957 Bellagio Road in Los Angeles, just across from the Bel Air Country Club.
Hitchcock died of renal failure in 1980.
Award of Merit.
It is widely known that as a child, Hitchcock's father once sent him to their local police station with a note asking the officer to lock him away for ten minutes as punishment for behaving badly.
This idea of being harshly treated or wrongfully accused is more than commonly reflected in Hitchcock's films.
His mother would often make him address her while standing at the foot of her bed, especially if he behaved badly, forcing him to stand there for hours.
When Hitchcock was 14, his father died; the same year, he left the Jesuit-run draftsman and advertising designer with a cable company.
About that time, Hitchcock became intrigued by Islington Studios with its American owner, Famous Players-Lasky and their British successor, Gainsborough Pictures, designing the titles for silent movies.
In 1925, Expressionist techniques he had witnessed firsthand in Germany.
Following the success of "The Lodger", Hitchcock began his first efforts to promote himself in the media, and hired a publicist to cement his growing reputation as one of the British film industry's rising stars.
On Patricia was born in 1928.
Alma was Hitchcock's closest collaborator.
She wrote some of his screenplays and (though often uncredited) worked with him on every one of his films.
While the film was in production, the studio decided to make it one of Britain's first sound pictures.
In 1933, Hitchcock was once again working for Michael Balcon at Gaumont-British Picture Corporation.
In "The 39 Steps", the Macguffin is a stolen set of blueprints.
Hitchcock's gallows humour and the suspense that became his trademark continued in his American work.
However, working arrangements with his new producer were less than optimal.
Selznick suffered from perennial money problems and Hitchcock was often unhappy with the amount of creative control demanded by Selznick over his films.
In addition, Selznick, as well as fellow independent producer Samuel Goldwyn, made only a few films each year, so Selznick did not always have projects for Hitchcock to direct.
Remarkably, Goldwyn had also negotiated with Hitchcock on a possible contract, only to be outbid by Selznick.
Hitchcock was quickly impressed with the superior resources of the American studios compared to the financial restrictions he had frequently encountered in England.
There were additional problems between Selznick and Hitchcock; Selznick, as he usually did, imposed very restrictive rules upon Hitchcock, hindering his creative control.
Hitchcock was forced to shoot the film as Selznick wanted, immediately creating friction within their relationship.
At the same time, Selznick complained about Hitchcock's "goddam jigsaw cutting," which meant that the producer did not have nearly the leeway to create his own film as he liked, but had to follow Hitchcock's vision of the finished product.
The film was the third longest of Hitchcock's films at 130 minutes, exceeded only by "The Paradine Case" at 132 minutes and "North by Northwest" at 136 minutes.
Hitchcock's first film as a producer as well as director.
This was Cary Grant's first film with Hitchcock.
Hitchcock was forced to utilize Universal contract players Robert Cummings and Priscilla Lane, both known for their work in comedies and light dramas; Hitchcock made the most of the situation and got remarkably good performances from the two lead actors.
Breaking with Hollywood conventions of the time, Hitchcock did extensive location filming, especially in New York City, and memorably depicted a confrontation between a suspected saboteur (Cummings) and a real saboteur (Norman Lloyd) atop the Statue of Liberty.
Rosa, during the summer of 1942.
The director showcased his own personal fascination with crime and criminals when he had two of his characters discuss various ways of killing people, to the obvious annoyance of Charlotte.
Since the action was confined to the small boat, the film was clearly the most confined of Hitchcock's films.
Returning to England for an extended visit in late 1943 and early 1944, Hitchcock filmed two short films for the Ministry of Information, "Bon Voyage" and "Aventure Malgache".
The films were made for France's free territories and were the only ones Hitchcock made in French; they feature typical Hitchcockian touches.
In the 1990s, the two films were shown by Turner Classic Movies and released on home video.
In 1945, Hitchcock served as "treatment advisor" (in effect, editor) for a Holocaust documentary produced by the British Army.
The film, which recorded the liberation of Concentration Camps, remained unreleased until 1985, when it was completed by PBS Frontline and distributed under the title "Memory of the Camps".
As Selznick failed to see its potential, he allowed Hitchcock to make the film for RKO.
From this point onwards, Hitchcock would produce his own films, giving him a far greater degree of freedom to pursue the projects that interested him.
Hitchcock regulars Ingrid Bergman and Cary Grant and features a plot about Nazis, uranium, and South America.
It was a huge box office success and has remained one of Hitchcock's most acclaimed films.
His use of uranium as a plot device briefly led to Hitchcock's being under surveillance by the FBI.
Hitchcock consulted scientists about the development of an atomic bomb; Selznick complained that the notion was "science fiction," only to be confronted by the detonation of two atomic bombs in 1945 that led to the end of World War II.
After completing his final film for Selznick, "James Stewart in the leading role, "Rope" was the first of four films Stewart would make for Hitchcock.
It was based on the Leopold and Loeb case of the 1920s.
Somehow Hitchcock's cameraman managed to move the bulky, heavy Technicolor camera quickly around the set as it followed the continuous action of the long takes.
Australia, also used the short-lived technique of long takes, but to a more limited extent.
He again used Technicolor in this production, then returned to black and white films for several years.
Hitchcock continued to produce his films for the rest of his life.
With "Strangers on a Train" (1951), based on the novel by Patricia Highsmith, Hitchcock combined many of the best elements from his preceding British and American films.
Two men casually meet and speculate on removing people who are causing them difficulty.
One of the men, though, takes this banter entirely seriously.
With Farley Granger reprising some elements of his role from "Rope", "Strangers" continued the director's interest in the narrative possibilities of blackmail and murder.
It proved to be Hitchcock's last film with Kelly because she married Prince Rainier of Monaco in 1956 and the residents of her new homeland refused to allow her to make any more films.
This was the only film of Hitchcock's to star Henry Fonda.
It was premiered in the San Sebastian International Film Festival, where Hitchcock won a Silver Seashell.
Failing health also reduced his output over the last two decades of his life.
For the first time, Hitchcock allowed nudity and profane language, which had before been taboo, in one of his films.
Biographers have noted that Hitchcock had always pushed the limits of film censorship, often managing to fool Joseph Breen, the longtime head of Hollywood's Production Code.
Many times Hitchcock slipped in subtle hints of improprieties forbidden by censorship until the mid-1960s.
Harris, a fraudulent spiritualist, and her taxi driver lover Bruce Dern making a living from her phony powers.
William Devane, Karen Black and Cathleen Nesbitt co-starred.
It was the only Hitchcock film scored by John Williams.
Near the end of his life, Hitchcock worked on the script for a projected spy thriller, "The Short Night", with screenwriters James Costigan and Ernest Lehman.
Despite some preliminary work, the story was never filmed, primarily due to Hitchcock's failing health and his concerns over his wife Alma's health, after she suffered a stroke.
The script was eventually published posthumously, in a book on Hitchcock's last years.
Hitchcock was made an Queen Elizabeth II in the 1980 New Year's Honours.
He died just four months later, on April 29, before he had the opportunity to be formally invested by the Queen.
Hitchcock preferred the use of suspense over surprise in his films.
In surprise, the director assaults the viewer with frightening things.
In suspense, the director tells or shows things to the audience which the characters in the film do not know, and then artfully builds tension around what will happen when the characters finally learn the truth.
If it explodes, that's a surprise.
Many of Hitchcock's films contain appearances by Hitchcock himself: the director would be seen for a brief moment boarding a bus, crossing in front of a building, standing in an apartment across the courtyard, or appearing in a photograph.
This playful gesture became one of Hitchcock's signatures.
As a recurring theme he would carry a musical instrument &mdash; especially memorable was the large double bass case that he wrestles onto the train at the beginning of "Strangers on a Train".
Numerous motifs (recurring objects or stylistic choices) can be found throughout Hitchcock's work.
Hitchcock seemed to delight in the technical challenges of filmmaking.
Similarly, the entire action in "Rear Window" either takes place or is seen from a single apartment.
For added novelty and impact, the climactic gunshot was hand-coloured red on some copies of the black-and-white print of the film.
Hitchcock used those points to hide the cut, and began the next take with the camera in the same place.
Hitchcock's films sometimes feature characters struggling in their relationships with their mothers.
Hitchcock heroines tend to be lovely, cool blondes who seem proper at first but, when aroused by passion or danger, respond in a more sensual, animal, or even criminal way.
As noted, the famous victims in "The Lodger" are all blondes.
In the same film, the diamond smuggler played by Karen Black could also fit that role, as she wears a long blonde wig in various scenes and becomes increasingly uncomfortable about her line of work.
Hitchcock saw that reliance on actors and actresses was a holdover from the theater tradition.
He was a pioneer in using camera movement, camera set ups and montage to explore the outer reaches of cinematic art.
Hitchcock often said that his personal favourite was "Shadow of a Doubt".
Actually, it's only when one enters the studio that one enters the area of compromise.
Hitchcock would storyboard each movie down to the finest detail.
He was reported to have never even bothered looking through the viewfinder, since he didn't need to do so, though in publicity photos he was shown doing so.
He also used this as an excuse to never have to change his films from his initial vision.
If a studio asked him to change a film, he would claim that it was already shot in a single way, and that there were no alternate takes to consider.
However this view of Hitchcock as a director who relied more on pre-production than on the actual production itself has been challenged by the book "Hitchcock At Work" written by Bill Krohn, the American correspondent of "Cahiers du Cinema".
Krohn after investigating several script revisions, notes to other production personnel written by or to Hitchcock alongside inspection of storyboards and other production material has observed that Hitchcock's work often deviated from how the screenplay was written or how the film was originally envisioned.
He noted that the myth of storyboards in relation to Hitchcock, often regurgitated by generations of commentators on Hitchcock's movies was to a great degree perpetuated by Hitchcock himself or the publicity arm of the studios.
A great example would be the famous cropduster sequence of "North by Northwest" which wasn't storyboarded at all.
After the scene was filmed, the publicity arm asked Hitchcock to make storyboards to promote the film and Hitchcock in turn hired an artist to match the scenes in detail.
While Hitchcock did do a great deal of preparation for all his movies, he was fully cognizant that the actual film-making process often deviated from the best laid plans and was flexible to adapt to the changes and needs of production.
Even on the occasions when storyboards were made, the scene which was shot did differ from it significantly.
Similarly much of Hitchcock's hatred of actors has been exaggerated.
Hitchcock simply did not tolerate the method approach as he believed that actors should only concentrate on their performances and leave work on script and character to the directors and screenwriters.
In a "Sight and Sound" interview, he stated that, ' the method actor is OK in the theatre because he has a free space to move about.
Regarding Hitchcock's sometimes less than pleasant relationship with actors, there was a persistent rumor that he had said that actors were cattle.
For Hitchcock, the actors, like the props, were part of the film's setting.
Hitchcock's innovations and vision have influenced a great number of filmmakers, producers, and actors.
His influence helped start a trend for film directors to control artistic aspects of their movies without answering to the movie's producer.
The Oscar in a contested category.
Hitchcock directed, won the 1940 Best Picture Oscar for its producer David O. Selznick.
Hitchcock was knighted in 1980.
Sixteen films directed by Hitchcock earned Oscar nominations, though only six of those films earned Hitchcock himself a nomination.
The total number of Oscar nominations (including winners) earned by films he directed is fifty.
Four of those films earned Best Picture nominations.
Along with colorised form.
French composer Charles Gounod (1818-1893), the composer of the 1859 opera "Faust", as the theme "song" for his television programs, after it was suggested to him by composer Bernard Herrmann.
Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops Orchestra included the piece, "Funeral March of a Marionette", in one of their extended play 45-rpm discs for RCA Victor during the 1950s.
The Three Investigators -- Jupiter Jones, Bob Andrews and Peter Crenshaw -- were amateur detectives, slightly younger than the Hardy Boys.
In the introduction to each book, "Alfred Hitchcock" introduces the mystery, and he sometimes refers a case to the boys to solve.
At the end of each book, the boys report to Hitchcock, and sometimes give him a memento of their case.
When the real Alfred Hitchcock died, the fictional Hitchcock in the Three Investigators books was replaced by a retired detective named Hector Sebastian.
At this time, the series title was changed from "Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators" to "The Three Investigators".
At the height of Hitchcock's success, he was also asked to introduce a set of books with his name attached.
The series was a collection of short stories by popular short-story writers, primarily focused on suspense and thrillers.
Some notable writers whose works were used in the collection include Robert Arthur.
Alfred Hitchcock had a dislike of egg yolk.
Biographer Patrick McGilligan confirmed Hitchcock's avoidance of eggs , while noting that the director had actually tried them as a young man, then discovered he didn't like them.
He was especially annoyed by poached eggs.
Hitchcock also had a serious fear of the police, which was the reason he said he never learned to drive.
His reasoning was that if one never drove, then one would never have an opportunity to be pulled over by the police and issued a ticket.
Please only add people who collaborated with Hitchcock on three or more films.
See discussion page, under "Frequent collaborators".
The Yellow Anaconda can be found as far south as northern Argentina.
There are some reports from early European explorers of the South American jungles seeing giant anacondas up to 18.2 m (60 ft) long, and some of the native peoples have reported seeing anacondas up to 15.2 m (50 ft) long, but these reports remain unverified.
Another claim of an extraordinary size anaconda was made by adventurer Percy Fawcett.
During his 1906 expedition, Fawcett wrote that he had shot an anaconda that measured some 18.9 m (62 ft) from nose to tail.
Recently an anaconda snake measuring over six meters and weighing nearly 200 kilos was captured in the backyard of an abandoned house in Parana, Brazil.
Their colours are yellow and green.
This sentence should be modified.
In December 2001, the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of an International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).
Should read: (NATO and coalition troops), because there is Sweden and other countries who don't belong to the NATO but are contributing troops for ISAF.
I know this is not about troops in afghanistan, but there was no where else to write this.
I have noticed in the etymology section that afghan has its 'a' written as a long a, such as in 'table'.
I speak the Afghani language Dari and know 100% that it is actually pronounced like the 'a' in 'father'.
Posted by Greg.
I recently used the search engine to see what Wikipedia says about my country's (Afghanistan) diversity and culture.
Pashtu is a SOUTH-EAST iranian language (iranian=aryanic) which is full of turkish, drawidic, dardic and foreighn vocabulars beside those real pashtu words, plus Pashtu is the most strong influenced language by persian..f.
Ok, you just proved to us the level of your ignorance by starting your discussion with the words "go get an education caveboy", If you cant respect the viewpoints of others than dont post.
On the topic at hand, i would have to say that i agree with the first guy.
Pashtoons have lived in that part of the world for a long time.
Afghanistan is influenced more by the ancient people of central asia than the persians.
Furthermore the whole structure of the pashto language is different than persian as farsi has not masculin or feminin aspects to any words or phrases whereas pashto has masculin and feminin forms for its words.
If the language is structured differently then how could it be influenced.
If anyone wants to explain that to me please do so because i am in need of some answers.
And please refrain from making any ignorant or offensive comments.
Most of pashtun afghans hate iran so I think there is a need to change this linguistic term iranian with some other term which would be acceptable to pashtun afghans.
Pashtu being called east iranian language is an abuse towards pashtuns.
The better idea would be to call pashtu an Avesto-aryan language rather than iranian language which is unacceptable to pashtuns of Afghanistan.
When indic languages are called indo-aryan languages then I think the time has come to call iranian languages as avesto-aryan languages.
As a Kurd, I prefer Tajiks to some Pashtuns, coz Pashtuns are far away from civilization (like supporting Taliban).
Persians or Farsi speakers of Iran, there are many other Iranic people many of them living outside of today Iranian Borders, like Kurds, and most Azeris as well as Lurs, Tajiks.
Kindly contribute to this article when you get time, and request others too.
Sorry to tell you this but Afghanistan and Iran will never be as friends the way you view it.
Iran should help itself first and at the same time keep outta Afghan affairs.
America signed a long term strategical partnership with Afghanistan in 2005, committing USA to help rebuild Afghanistan for no matter how long it takes.
Since America and Iran are not friendly towards each others and Afghanistan being on USA's side, Iran should step off.
I've visited Iran on several occasions, most people in Iran don't even know where Afghanistan is located, you call that having good relations with Afghanistan?
Iranians naturally envy Afghans, Pakistanis also envy Afghans.
That's been the case for a very long time now and Afghanistan's people are very well used to this.
If you like Iran so much, go live there because nobody is stopping you.
Afghanistan is doing fine, slowly rebuilding by the help of the western countries, especially USA.
I'm very much sure Afghans don't need Iran or Pakistan for help right now, except in trying to make them stop the insurgents from crossing over to Afghan territories.
At the same time, Iran and Pakistan need Afghanistan's help in trying to stop drugs from being smuggled to their countries.
Iran has the world's highest heroin users, that could permanently cripple Iran.
Pakistan also has the same problem with high drug use.
Can you please put a protection over this thread.
The site overs free (GNU GPL) afghan calendars in different languages.
The site is hosted at the GNU Savannah project.
The aim of this project is to provide free available multilingual Afghan calendars, that are accessible on all major platforms and provide access to all functionality via free tools.
The Williams Afghan Media Project (WAMP) is an online resource for the study of Afghanistan.
In addition to helping to preserve and make available resources related to Afghanistan, WAMP also provides a site for exploring Afghanistan's cultural legacy, historical development, and present situation.
I think it's fine now.
Just about the linguistic map, you have added Wardak province for Persian.
Are you sure that Persian is the dominant language in Wardak?
As far as I know, Wardak is completely Pashtun.
Ghazni, Kabul and Wardak are Pashtun provinces so why forge Aim facts with false info here?
I have done my math and it cleary shows Pashtuns as majority, but you will not admit it.
Ghazni is multi ethnic province, but the majority comes out to be Pashtuns.
There are so many inaccurate informations being posted onto this website that without question one of these days it will be taken to court for its forgery and falsification of information.
I have been following Afghanistan's information and I have noticed everything has been posted according to ethnicity, by showing Tajiks to be superior and others minority.
If we follow Aims than we need to look at the presidencial election which showed clearly who is majority in which province since every vote was done according to ethnicity.
One more thing don't play this hyprotical game of me bieng NaserKand this just proves how illiterate you are and what type of people running here.
You must be Troy or Gul Agha fininaced by Iran to creat disunity among Afghans and forge of FACTS AND HISTORY.
This site will be sued and you will officially be left without a job and watch within months this place will be closed and your agents will whine forever.
No one is showing Tajiks as majority.
There is no majority in Afghanistan.
We have shown Tajiks as 27% and that based on CIA World Fact Book and they get their info from the government of Afghanistan.
Also "IF" you've done the math then you'll get that "Hazaras" are the largest group in Ghazni according to the numbers from AIMS.
Go do the math and you'll get these numbers fro Ghazni, "unless my "Microsoft Excel" can't add up numbers".
And if you're not NisarKand then how would you know who he is?
You are following a source which has no credibility nor does it hold any important facts which can be used in terms of population or ethnicity.
I can show you CIA facts which in 1991 showed Pashtuns majority but the following year it flip floped.
Tell me what sort of fact and credibility it holds?
Even on the news it was mentioned that the voting which took place everyone voted for their own ethnicity.
Ofcourse a country which has seen war for decades and have been disunited by foreigners will not trust anyone but thier own ethnicity.
What makes me believe this fact is that WAK an organization in Pakistan had taken census of Afghanistan and it shows Pashtuns majority the same provinces Karzai won the voting.
This census was done before Presidential election.
I can provide you the information if you are willing to read it.
Now regarding NaserKand it's so abvous after coming to this website for a year in I've been noticing so many LIES, FORGERY of FACTS that I saw Arain and NaserKand argue about whats credible or what isn't.
Both posted here and thats how I know.
If you think we are one then I think you are only fooling yourself.
Now the only time someone would disregard opinions of others is when they can't defend it or debate to break out the truth.
In that case calling my answer laughable shows your emotional side.
Now leave Afghanistan related facts to Afghans and you concentrate on your own country.
We don't need PRO IRANIANS OR PAKISTANIS CREATING FALSE INFORMATION!
Facts which you have been using mostly and even you mentioned it for the census of ethnicity.
Sorry to disappoint you but mixing two different sources to get one information does not make sense not only to me but everyone else.
Using AIMS for provinces and then using another source for Kabul is the most ignorant hypocrite nonesens comment I have ever read.
Now can you answer following of my questions kindly.
Who conducted the information which you mentioned Kabul City 45% Tajiks?
In what year was this censuse taken?
Provide its full information.
So now can you tell me which ethnicity is majority or minority?
I am not threatening you or anyone but asking to remove your lies about Afghanistan and forgery of facts.
There is no humour in this neither is there any nonesense.
Now you are either creating your own maps using paint and photoShop and putting it up on wikipedia for Language and Ethnicity.
You have no proper proof to back your claimcy for your lies.
Until you have true facts and information outside of Iranica, CIA and AIM you can't put someting which has no truth.
If AIM had any truth they would have used it for national census while ago when the government was being formed, but it wasn't for a reason.
Please stop your confusing statements.
Peshawar, a Pashtun foundation.
These are text and historical books, not a census report!
In addition, NO CENSUS TOOK PLACE AFTER 1996 IN AFGHANISTAN as WAK foundation stated.
So all its reports are fake and incorrect.
We've already given you several sources.
Sources from non-neutral organizations like a Pashtun organization is not credible on Wiki due to bias.
On Wiki we avoid any possible bias in articles and prefer to use neutral sources.
This is after all an encyclopedia.
Anyone wants to go read a organization from one ethnic group's numbers on demographics can do so.
But on Wikipedia opinions are not accepted.
Again here is the source that clearly shows Kabul City as 45% Tajik and if you look there it will show you they got the numbers from research by "Center for Afghan Studies", University of Nebraska.
First of all stop getting all emotional and claiming that I am Naser whatever his name is.
If you can prove it go ahead if you can't don't hide your true face by claiming I am him.
In that case you must be Gul Agha the same person that goes forum to forum and posts falsified information or Troy.
I didn't post any map nor did I make up any information.
Now stop being so ignorant and accept the truth and accept your humailation.
Once again I will post the information and I will save the information through screen save and show it to everyone to embarass you further more and show your true face.
Pashtuns and Tajiks, that settled in the region hundreds of years ago.
Accept the truth and accept it that every map and information that has been put has been due to personal opinion and personal agenda.
I'm sorry but wikipedia needs to stop letting Pan Iranian supporters vandalise a thread about Afghanistan.
Check out any other online source and it will till you Pashtuns makeup more than 50% of the population.
Afghanistan is very important on every side which is written about Afghans.
Again personal attacks and direct insult!
I think you are not getting the point.
Did you read the message that I put in your talk page?
The History of India, Volume 2, chpt.
The History of India, Volume 2, chpt.
Bin Aby Sufra.
Kabul revolts from the Moslems, who are expelled.
The whole Afghan history plays in modern Pakistan and India and not in modern Afghanistan which had first the persian name Khorassan.
Is this a chance?
Khiljas of Ghazna were just a remnant of the Khilijas who moved to Delhi and Suleiman Mountains with their ruler?
Timur wrote there lived in Ghazana around 2000 of them.
Maybe you should write southern of kabulistan there was called as Afghanistan like the Kohistan district of Pakistan, you know.
I think it might still be too early to say that the production is down, but I would be very interested in seeing a cite if you can provide one.
If two valid refs contradict each other, the proper thing to do would probably be to use them both, as opposing views.
I know it bothers you that the opium production is being mentioned 3 times in relatively rapid succession, but the first and third refs are very closely linked.
The first ref shows that production had indeed been down (under the Taliban), and the third (now deleted) ref, showed that it is up again.
I think that the relationship between the two statements is important.
Let me suggest this: Let's replace the text that got deleted, then we can add a new sentence like "As of 2007, production was down 30% due to government efforts" as soon as you can provide the ref for it.
I'm trying hard to find a compromise and hope that this will be suitable.
I'm a little confused as to how the male literacy rate and the female literacy rate are BOTH larger than the total literacy rate (in the education section).
Are there a whole bunch of illiterate hermaphrodites and transsexuals in afghanistan?
Thank you for pointing out, someone has recently edited the correct literacy rate in the article.
However, the total of Male and Female literacy rates being equal to the total population's literacy rate is NOT a necessary condition.
The male literacy rate and female literacy rate are counted on base of male/female proportion in the population.
Doesn't it break the "NPOV" neutruality rule to refer to any of the Supreme Court's decisions as "questionable"?
Why "Soviet invasion of Afghanistan" and "conflict with the US"?
I mean, why is the Soviet one an invasion, and the US one a conflict?
So, "helping hand" is a diplomatic euphemism to keep the US propagandists from anger?
Any suggestions/ comments?
I wonder about the description of the book Afghanistan: The Genesis of the Final Crusade as "an insider's perspective of the war on Afghanistan".
It is also clearly an extremely partial opinion in the debate, being published by a thinktank promoting an Islamic State.
I would suggest either changing the description to "Afghanistan: The Genesis of the Final Crusade, the view of a conservative Islamic thinktank on Afghanistan and 9/11" or preferrably removing the link alltogether as irrelevant for the article.
Koreans in Afghanistan are in dilemma while South Korean Government have banned travel to certain places including Afghansitan since the abduction of 22 Koreans social worker.
Read 2007 South Korean hostage crisis in Afghanistan.
Hundreds of Koreans stayed in the dry country have given help to the Afghan people.
But they were hard to differ the friendly Afghan and the bad Taliban.
Quite the penalty for a grammar error.
Pashtuns have been and still are.
We had consensus.
It contained the three demonyms for about a week, until Hurooz decided to unilaterally change it, without discussing in talk first, even though he had been party to the discussion on the last day we brought it up (16 Nov).
Afghan Tolo TV discusses linguistic tensions and the prescribed use of Pashto names and titles in the media and government offices.
Guests are Zubair Shafiqi, editor-in-chief of Daily Weesa; Fahim Dashti, editor-in-chief of Kabul Weekly; Manjia Bakhtari, Kabul University lecturer; Jawed Farhad, writer and analyst; Esmail Yun, Kabul University lecturer and Ahmad Zia Rafat, Kabul University lecturer and head of the United National Council of Afghanistan.
The following are excerpts from the roundtable aired by independent Tolo TV on 14 March; subheadings inserted editorially: [Correspondent] Welcome to our today's talk show.
My first question goes to Mr Zubair Shafiqi.
I have been watching Tolo television for the past one and half year.
Some programmes aired on Tolo, especially the Goftaman [discourse] Programme, are not in favour of the current critical situation in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan is emerging from several years of civil war and we are still facing foreign interferences.
I believe, in the current situation and the current nation-building process, we vitally need confidence and trust.
How can we have trust?
The people of Afghanistan have always remained united against foreign invasions and aggressions, but when foreign aggressions and big crises are over, some people raise specific issues to harm the national unity.
Is there a national language?
In your article, you have mentioned that the paragraph on the preservation of prescribed names has been added to the constitution.
How can we accept prescribed names when we do not have a national language?
I would not go into the technical side of the fact that we have or do not have a national language.
It is clear.
The constitution obliges us to preserve our nationally prescribed names.
There were very long discussions during the Constitutional Loya Jerga on this issue.
Some people were fuelling such talks.
Negotiations and discussions are natural in grand assemblies, but once they make a decision after long discussions, then no one has the right to reject a decision.
I believe the constitution has a paragraph asking for the preservation of the prescribed names and everyone should preserve it.
It is in favour of our nation, and it will be in favour of our national unity.
But one sentence before the paragraph on the preservation of prescribed names says: Publications and radio and television broadcasting are free in all languages spoken in the country.
Can one criticize a radio or television for broadcasting in a specific language?
No one has been stopped from doing so.
Zia Rafat, do you think there is any difference between official and national language?
Can you specifically tell us if there is any difference between national and official languages?
Yes there is.
We cannot speak of a national language unless we have a nation, but we can have official languages as our constitution has stipulated.
But official languages cannot be considered as national languages because we still do not agree on a single language to be the national language.
Esmail Yun, the constitution speaks of official languages in different paragraphs, but there is nothing said about the national language.
If we do not have a national language mentioned in the constitution, how can we have nationally prescribed names?
Those, who do not accept this article [article No 16] of the constitution today, they had proposed 13 articles for amendment.
The points they wanted to change were that Pashto should not be the national language of Afghanistan, the national anthem should not be in Pashto, the word Afghan should not be used for citizens of Afghanistan and the people of Afghanistan should be called Afghanistani.
They also wanted the name of Afghanistan to change.
One of these people was Mr Hafiz Mansour who fuelled such issues.
In order to bring amendments to the 13 articles, they needed 152 signatures of the Loya Jerga representatives.
Changes to 13 articles of the constitutions were proposed by those who were against the identity of Afghanistan.
Some Loya Jerga representatives from eastern and southwestern provinces wanted Pashto to be mentioned as the national language of Afghanistan in the constitution.
According to the UN and Constitutional Loya Jerga secretariat, the representatives could only sign once to propose amendment to an article.
When the signatures collected by those, who wanted changes in 13 articles, were checked, fortunately they had not managed to get the needed number of signatures.
I say fortunately because it was in favour of the people that they could not change the articles.
One of the people was Mr Hafiz Mansour who had signed twice for one article.
Faking signatures in such an important and critical issue could be considered a political crime.
Several of those who now launch and chant slogans had faked signatures.
All those documents would still be available at the UN archives or other places.
They therefore failed to amend the 13 articles through a legal process.
Which one is the final draft of the constitution that the people should act upon?
There were people who introduced themselves as people's representatives in the Loya Jerga and came there from different channels, but they were themselves against their nation.
They did not accept Afghanistan, Afghanistan's identity or the Afghan nation.
When they failed to bring amendments to their proposed articles, they did not even accept to take part in the general Loya Jerga voting process.
The Loya Jerga representatives made decisions about articles on the basis of understanding and discussions.
When understanding or discussions did not work, then the option was voting.
The Loya Jerga understanding committee decided to have the paragraph on preservation of the prescribed names in an attempt to protect Afghanistan from cultural and language aggression of other countries and to make a distinction between our languages and the languages spoken in Iran, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
The paragraph does not only speak about Pashto or Dari languages.
I am not a language expert of Dari.
As a university lecturer, I would say that Dari and Farsi are both the same language.
But the constitution of Afghanistan mentions Dari, not Farsi.
The sentence on prescribed names was added in the constitution to protect Afghanistan's Dari language from the aggression of Iranian Farsi.
The Loya Jerga representatives said Afghanistan's Dari and Pashto languages have understanding and similarity.
Afghanistan's Pashto has no similarity or understanding with Pakistani Pashto.
Pakistani Pashto is an alien language and our people are unfamiliar with it.
Iranian Farsi language is therefore not only unfamiliar to Pashtuns, but is also alien and unfamiliar to Dari speakers.
They do not understand it.
This article has been added in full understanding with all Loya Jerga representatives.
It is just a few people who made fake signatures and wanted to change the articles.
They failed and that is why they now claim that some paragraphs have been added to article No 16 of the constitution.
So you think there is a difference between Dari and Farsi.
But all the people of Afghanistan prefer Afghanistan's Dari to Iranian Farsi.
We also prefer Afghanistan's Pashto to Pakistani Pashto.
If we believe both languages are totally the same and has no difference, why was Farsi not mentioned in the constitution instead of Dari?
I come back to the first question; is there a difference between official and national languages?
Yes, there are differences.
We have examples in different parts of the world.
The language of the majority tribe is considered the national language of that country.
We have different ethnic groups in Afghanistan and a collection of all these tribes makes a nation.
Of course we do not have a 100 per cent majority ethnic group among all these tribes, but we estimate a partly majority tribe.
I mentioned earlier that official languages can change, but native language does not change.
Farsi was the official language during the Mogul Empire in India, but when the Mogul ended, the official language ended too.
We therefore should consider a difference between official and national languages.
Right now, the official language in India and Pakistan is English, but it is not their native language.
No one in India or Pakistan would say that English is their national language.
The language of the majority ethnic group is the national language.
Jawed Farhad, taking into account Mr Yun's remarks, do you see any difference between Dari and Farsi?
For instance, in philology, the similarity of a language is considered from the way it is used and the alphabet that it uses.
We cannot see any difference between the way Farsi is used in Iran or Dari used in Afghanistan.
From the view point of historical philology, I believe that Farsi and Dari are both the same.
I would give a very simple example.
A person has one name at home, but is called with another name outside.
But he is the same person.
Dari and Farsi are not two languages, but are the same language with two different names.
We do not know two languages called Iranian Farsi and Afghan Dari.
We should differentiate between accent and the language itself.
Most people in Afghanistan consider the accent as a language.
It is only the accent that differs in different areas.
The changes are not very significant though.
Mr Yun mentioned something about the native majority and national language.
It is very difficult to set standards based on which a language can be considered a native language.
We cannot say what language has a deeper history and native roots unless we conduct very deep and close researches and surveys.
The thought that any language with native majority is a national language is a totally personal and individual interpretation and assumption.
Manija Bakhtari, what are the standards based on which you can consider a language popular?
This history goes back to a very big civilization, which has had a language of its own.
We have documents and evidence suggesting the historic roots and use of that specific language by the big civilization.
When we speak of the historical roots of our language, of course we have evidence to prove it.
Farsi and Dari have no difference from the view point of grammar and word order.
It is just a difference of accents.
We cannot say Iranian or Afghan languages because they both come from the same roots and are the same.
When we use the Farsi words for university [Dari: Daneshgah], lady [Dari: Banu], trader [Dari: Bazargan], it has nothing to do with cultural or language aggression.
Another point which may not relate to your question is the constitution.
Has any other paragraph been added to the constitution after it was approved by the Loya Jerga or not?
I do not want to go into details about the first part because Mr [Fahim] Dashti might have more information about it.
I personally believe that one paragraph, on preservation of national expressions, has been added to the constitution.
Let us first speak about prescribed names and discuss what features the prescribed names should have in a society.
If we need to have prescribed names in our society, why should they always have to be from the language of a specific group of people?
When we speak about the national anthem, why should it be in the language of one specific ethnic group?
Mr Dashti, after the endorsement of the new constitution, there were rumours of counterfeit and addition of some paragraphs in the constitution.
You were also one of the critics.
What do you think was the need to add new paragraphs into the constitution after it was approved by Loya Jerga representatives?
I will give you copies of the constitution.
These copies of the constitution carry [Senate speaker] Sebghatollah Mojaddedi's signature on the top of the pages.
We cannot see any paragraph about prescribed names in the end of article No 16.
Unfortunately I was not as lucky as Mr Yun to be a member of the Constitutional Loya Jerga, but as a journalist, I have been there in almost all discussions under the Loya Jerga tent.
Mr Yun spoke about the understanding committee.
I was expecting him to also speak about the behind-the-scene committees and meetings that were held in the smaller tent, where all decisions were made.
It is also a fact that most decisions were made in the smaller tent in the presence of Mr Zalmay Khalilzad, the then US ambassador to Afghanistan, and the UN special envoy to Afghanistan.
The copy was distributed among all Loya Jerga representatives by Sebghatollah Mojaddedi who was then chairman of the meeting.
I also have a copy of the draft distributed among representatives.
If I am not mistaken, there was a gap of 14 to 15 days between the approval of the constitution by Loya Jerga representatives and the endorsement of the constitution by the president.
When the constitution was endorsed by the president, we could see this new paragraph in the president's endorsed copy.
The paragraph says: The present national administrative and academic names in Afghanistan are safe.
This sentence was not mentioned in the main draft of the constitution which was approved by the Loya Jerga representatives.
When the constitution was endorsed by the president and rumours circulated, as a journalist, I was trying to find out what had happened.
There is another copy of the constitution signed by Nematollah Shahrani, who was chairman of the Constitution Scrutiny Commission.
It also carried the signature of Prof [Abdol Salam,] Azimi, who was then deputy head of the Constitution Scrutiny Commission, and is now the chief justice.
There were two other signatures that I do not exactly remember who they belonged to.
That copy also included Sebghatollah Mojaddedi's signature.
This specific paragraph has been added in that copy too.
When we asked the president's office for an answer about it, they said the president had endorsed the copy signed by Mr Shahrani and four or five other people.
When we asked Sebghatollah Mojaddedi as chairman of the Grand Assembly, he rejected to comment.
When asked for comments, Nematollah Shahrani, chairman of the Constitution Scrutiny Commission, said their job was complete when they had handed over the first copy of the constitution to the Loya Jerga.
Even on that time I wrote, and I repeat again, that the president of Afghanistan is responsible for this counterfeit in the constitution.
There are two assumptions: If the president had signed the constitution without reading it and cross-checking it with the copy signed by Sebghatollah Mojaddedi, then he is responsible.
When the president endorses a law, he should first read it and make sure he fully understands it, he can then endorse it.
If the president did read the constitution and noticed a change but still signed it, he is responsible.
This is not the only case of forgery in the constitution.
There are two to three other minor changes too.
What do you think are the causes for the forgery?
Well, Mr Yun spoke about one group of people earlier, but he did not speak about the other group.
There were two different groups of people with different thoughts in the Loya Jerga.
One group wanted the national anthem to be in Pashto and wanted the so-called prescribed names to be safe, and several other issues.
This was what one group wanted.
But there was another group against demands of the first group.
I think the first group had had more influence in the behind-the-scene games, in the smaller tent that I mentioned earlier, and succeeded to dismiss the thoughts of the second group.
In spite of all our efforts, we could not get any clear answer from the president, Mr Shahrani or Mr Mojaddedi about rumours or criticisms of changes in the constitution.
Mr Shafiqi, do you reject or accept the copy of the constitution that I gave you earlier?
Naturally, I accept it as the constitution of Afghanistan because it has been signed by the president of our country.
So you think Mr Mojaddedi's signatures on the top of the pages are faked?
Anyway, we come to the other point which reads: Publications and radio and television broadcasting are free in all languages spoken in the country.
To some extent it is alright.
We should have constructive discussions.
Unfortunately, I can see that sometimes discussions about the prescribed names and national values are very pessimistic.
Sometimes people even reject our national prides and identity.
Sometimes people in this programme speak on behalf of a nation that has, in a very short time, defeated big emperors, but unfortunately they forget their national values and prides and do not even confess what nation they represent.
I do not think it is right to raise and discuss in television the issues that harm the national unity in Afghanistan.
Do you have any comments Mr Rafat?
Well, it became clear that there has been forgery in the constitution.
Something that should not have happened has happened.
I believe it has a historical reason.
When a specific tribe or group has been in power and influenced other tribes for decades, it is natural that ethnic conflicts resurface.
The ruling tribe is always afraid that other tribes or groups might stand against its interests.
It therefore always tries to create obstacles for other tribes and tries to prevent them from gaining power.
One of the obstacles that the tribe-in-power can create is to add a paragraph in the constitution under the title of languages or national names.
It also has political reasons, there is no doubt.
War created awareness.
If they say that other tribes had kept quiet about such issues before the war, their silence had never meant that they accepted everything imposed on them.
Their silence has been a result of despotism.
But during the war, other tribes also found the opportunity to develop their talents.
When other talents emerge, positions change.
When positions change, such conflicts occur.
First, I would like to comment on Mr Dashti's remarks.
According to Mr Dashti, the president is criminal because he has forged the constitution.
From the legal point of view, accusing someone is itself a crime.
It is even not possible to think that it has been forged.
It is a humiliation and disgrace to the Loya Jerga representatives.
Why did those people not accept to vote?
They simply sat there and warned others and humiliated them.
The reason was that the majority of the representatives wanted understanding.
When understanding did not work, voting was the last option.
It is a principle of democracy.
But they never agreed to vote.
There are different copies of the constitution.
The copy you are showing us is the third copy.
When the constitution commission presented the first draft to the Loya Jerga, the Loya Jerga members suggested several changes.
So you think this is also not the final version of the constitution, right?
Then why did Mojaddedi sign it?
Mojaddedi signed every copy of the constitution that was presented to the Loya Jerga representatives.
This is not the final text.
There was another copy before this text.
Who were members of the understanding committee?
The 552 members of the Constitutional Loya Jerga had been divided into 10 committees.
The understanding committee was composed of representatives from the 10 committees.
Heads, deputy heads and secretaries of the 10 committees were members of the understanding committee.
They represented the 552 members.
There has been no forgery.
It is impossible.
Speaking of forgery is a humiliation to the Constitutional Loya Jerga of Afghanistan.
The president did not need to do so.
What has the government done to strengthen and develop the languages of other ethnic groups mentioned in the constitution?
Even if we tell you to observe this article now, than Tolo television might possibly complain.
You said earlier that broadcasting is free.
Yes, it is free, but within the framework of law.
Broadcasting is free, but the contents of the broadcasts that harm the national unity in Afghanistan and are against the Islamic values and create division among the people of Afghanistan are not free.
We say the people have approved this article of the constitution.
I agree that some people might have been against it, but it is a result of voting.
Majority people have voted for it.
It is a principle of democracy.
We do not say nothing should be done to promote and develop Dari language or other languages.
For instance, Uzbek language is a majority in [northern] Balkh and Takhar Provinces.
They can have radio and televisions in Uzbek in those provinces.
It is their right and no one stops them.
We are discussing the legal side of the issue.
Suppose the text of the constitution is right, but we can see that the government has done nothing to promote any of the languages mentioned in the constitution.
For instance, we see that when job vacancies are announced by the Administrative Reforms and Civil Services Commission, the main condition of appointment is English language.
Do you not think that the government has taken the first step to break the law?
We do not confirm all the activities of the government and we do not say that the government is like angels doing nothing wrong.
There are several other problems.
But how can we criticize Tolo television?
We fulfil our responsibility.
We should also advise the government to address problems and shortcomings.
We cannot commit crimes because other commit crime or do something wrong.
Another point, when we speak of nationally prescribed names, they are all proper names.
We have also accepted several Dari words in Pashto.
If we talk about all these discriminations and separations in the government and among the people, several other problems will emerge.
The government has not managed to establish specific academies or institutions to work on language enrichment and promotion.
The government has not done several things.
The government cannot ensure security inside Kabul.
We should not expect all these things from the government.
I am talking about people who raise such issues.
The government has not raised this issue, but the televisions have raised it.
So it is for the televisions and academies to sit together and address the problem through negotiations.
It is not the job of one journalist or one writer to change a language.
Academies and universities should sit together to address the problem.
Mrs Manija, what do you think needs to be done for a language to be naturally promoted without someone telling or ordering us or putting it in the law?
How can we replace foreign languages with our own language?
When we emphasize the use of Dari words in our language and when we say Pashto words should not enter or be imposed on our language, it is just because a group or a tribe wants to force us to use those words.
As you mentioned earlier, there is a high interest for English language in our society now because it is a language with which people can make a living these days.
Those who speak English can have better privileges and live with good working opportunities.
It goes back to poverty in our society and lack of employment opportunities for the citizens of Afghanistan.
We should have centres to make words and names for imported goods.
Reading is one of the factors that can help improve our language.
Another point I would like to mention is that all the discussion we had today or all discussions in Afghanistan's intellectual circles today go back to some problems of years back or even decades back.
Those problems have been caused as a result of forgery in the history of Afghanistan.
If you go to schools today and see history books taught there, you can see that history has been forged and changed.
This is what has caused the issue of minority and majority.
The Loya Jerga proves it.
Why do you reject something so clear and natural?
Even the number of representatives selected from different provinces for the Loya Jerga had also been based on discriminations.
We can see how many representative we had from [northern province of] Badakhshan and how many from Kandahar?
It is on the basis of population.
We do not still have an exact population census in Afghanistan to say who is a majority and who is a minority.
Democracy does not speak of minority or majority.
It is the right of every individual citizen that is important in democracy.
I would like to make some very brief points.
First, Mr Yun said that I called the president a criminal.
I have never done so and will not do so.
But when I said he had signed the constitution, he is responsible to the people for his signature.
Secondly, you say it is a humiliation to the representatives of the people when we say there has been a forgery.
I also believe so.
I have all the different copies from the first to the last.
I have the whole collection.
I even have the copy that was distributed in the last day of the Loya Jerga when the Loya Jerga ended.
It was signed by Sebghatollah Mojaddedi.
I also say the same thing.
When the Loya Jerga representatives approve a document after 22 days of long discussions, but then we see that document is changed during the gap between the approval and the endorsement.
They worked for 22 days and finally approved something, but a person or a specific group changed it.
It is of course a humiliation to the people's representatives.
I reiterate that there has been no forgery in the constitution.
Those who are against a paragraph of article No 16 of the constitution are also against the identity of Afghanistan.
They were also against the name and citizenship of Afghanistan.
The people of Afghanistan are obliged to obey it and accept it.
You worked there as a journalist, but I was a member of the constitution commission.
It says national expressions.
Prescribed names do not necessarily have to be Pashto words or phrases.
Why are people so sensitive to this?
Bank Melli Afghan [national bank of Afghanistan] is Dari and we use the same name.
Pohantun and Stera Mahkama [Pashto words for university and Supreme Court] are also proper names.
Why should the representatives of people forge?
It is not possible.
Dear viewers, thanks for accompanying us.
Thanks to our guests.
The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language and Princeton University's WordNet are also both authoritative.
Of or relating to Afghanistan; Afghan.
I didn't bring this up before, but have any of you seen the denonym for other ---istan countries?
If we don't include Afghanistani here (and it is referenced) then Afghanistan would be the only ----istan country as an exception here on Wikipedia.
Although I don't believe that polls are all that useful in general, I think now is the time to determine where we stand on the issue.
As I see it, there are three options: 1.
Afghan only with a footnote for the other two.
The voting here is irrelevant as the terms are sourced.
Voting does not remove the sources.
It does not matter what the preference of a few editors is.
If these terms were not from scholarly sources, then a vote would apply.
However, in this case, the terms are sourced by scholarly sources, and voting does not apply.
Man do you have a problem understanding that the "AUDIENCE" of Wikipedia are "NOT" scholars?
How many times do I have to tell you?
Wikipedia will not go searching footnotes for additional info!
Get that through your head!
Look at Bejnar's contribs, the guy is an Afghan nationalist and he has manipulated you and others to his side.
The only reason provided by Bejnar is that he doesn't think it's preferred.
That is "HIS POV"!
Don't make things up.
A poll does not count as concensus.
In this article it would be correct to describe the important GIAAC, the Anti Corrupion Authority, which is an independant body with Izzatullah Wasifi as its general director.
As there is an article on his name, that article could also be completed with a link back to this part.
Altaic family is in dispute.
Among those who accept it, some class Altaic as a branch of macrofamilies.
Central Asia and northeast Asia.
The proponents of Altaic traditionally consider it to include the Ainu.
Sometimes hypotheses that include only Turkic, Mongolic, and Tungusic are called "Micro-Altaic" and ones that include additional language families are called "Macro-Altaic".
The relationships among these languages are currently a matter of debate among historical linguists.
Some scholars consider the apparent similarity among these languages to indicate a genetic relationship.
Others propose that they are not a family derived from a common ancestor but a Sprachbund, a group of languages that have become similar in some ways by massive borrowing because of long language contact.
Altaic is itself part of the still more controversial Nostratic hypotheses.
The idea that the Mongolic, and Tungusic languages are each others' closest relatives was allegedly first published by F.J. von Strahlenberg in 1730.
For much of the 19th and early 20th centuries, those few linguists who studied these language families regarded them as members of a common Starostin et al.
As a result of decades-long work, Japanese to the latter, and contained the first attempts to find regular correspondences in the sound systems and grammars of the Altaic language families.
In the 1960s the pendulum swung in the other direction.
The proponents of this hypothesis are sometimes called "the Anti-Altaicists".
Doubt was also raised about the affinities of Korean and Japanese (defended by Roy Andrew Miller in 1971); in particular, some workers tried to connect Japanese to the Austronesian languages.
Using the controversial multilateral comparison, Joseph Greenberg (2000) found a family consisting of Turkic, Mongolic, and Tungusic and a separate family consisting of Korean, Japanese, and Ainu.
With the Late Glacial warming, up to the Atlantic Phase of the Post-Glacial Optimum, Mesolithic groups moved northwards into this area from the Hissar (6000-4000 BCE) and Keltiminar (5500-3500 BCE) cultures, which introduced the bow and arrow and the hunting dog, within what Kent Flannery has called the "broad-spectrum revolution".
The Keltiminar culture practised a mobile hunting, gathering, fishing, and over time, an introduced stockbreeding seasonal-round subsistence system while inhabiting the semi-desert, desert, and deltaic areas of the Kara and Kyzyl Kum deserts, and the lower Amu Darya and Zeravshan rivers.
Their anthropological type is of a basic Europoid group with admixture of Mongoloids.
Karasuk people lived in permanent settlements in frame-type houses.
The economy was complex; they bred large-horned livestock, horses, and sheep.
In the Karasuk period they developed a high level of bronze metallurgy.
Characteristic of the Karasuk culture are extensive cemeteries.
Tombs are fenced with stone slabs laid on crest.
The Karasuk culture is a result of migration of eastern part of Dinlins, and had an influence as far as the Ordos region of China and across into Manchuria and northern Korea.
The split between the Turkic and Mongolian languages, it is proposed, was the last division within the Proto-Altaic group, and it has been suggested that this occurred just prior to the Xiongnu period of Central Asian history.
Alveolar or dental!
This phoneme only occurred at the beginnings of words.
These phonemes only occurred in the interior of words.
Every vowel occurred in long and short versions which were different phonemes in the first syllable.
As reconstructed by Starostin et al.
Only single consonants are considered here.
In the middle of words, clusters of two consonants were allowed in Proto-Altaic as reconstructed by Starostin et al.
Middle Korean!
Length and pitch in the first syllable evolved as follows according to Starostin et al.
Because grammar is less easily borrowed than words, grammar is usually considered stronger evidence for language relationships than vocabulary.
Old Turkic!
Classical Mongolian!
Middle Korean!
Suffixes reconstructed for Proto-Turkic, Proto-Mongolic, Proto-Korean, or Proto-Japonic, but not attested in Old Turkic, Classical Mongolian, Middle Korean, or Old Japanese are marked with asterisks.
Classical Mongolian!
Middle Korean!
As above, forms not attested in Classical Mongolian or Middle Korean but reconstructed for their ancestors are marked with an asterisk, and /V/ represents an uncertain vowel.
In the Indo-European family, the numerals are remarkably stable.
German language spoken in Austria and South Tyrol.
As German is a High German dialects.
Ordinarily, these dialects are considered to belong either to the Styria and the former including the dialects of Vienna, Upper Austria, and Lower Austria.
As the dialect spoken in Vorarlberg is more closely related to Swiss German than to other Austrian dialects, most Austrians have difficulty in understanding it.
While strong forms of the various dialects are not normally fully comprehensible to Northern Styria.
Simple words in the various dialects are very similar, but pronunciation is distinct for each and, after listening to a few spoken words it may be possible for an Austrian to realise which dialect is being spoken.
However, in regard to the dialects of the deeper valleys of the Styria, Vienna, Upper Austria, and the Tyrol being very characteristic.
Speakers from those regions, even those speaking Standard German, can usually be easily identified by their accent, even by an untrained listener.
Several of the dialects have been influenced by contact with non-Germanic linguistic groups, such as the dialect of Carinthia, where in the past many speakers were bilingual with Austro-Hungarian period, particularly from what is today the Czech Republic.
The dialects of South Tyrol has been influenced by the Italian language, in particular with many loan words.
Interestingly, the geographic borderlines between the different accents (isoglosses) coincide strongly with the borders of the states and also with the border to Bavaria, with Bavarians having a markedly different rhythm of speech in spite of the similarities in the language as such.
Therefore the perfect tense of these verbs would be "ich bin gesessen", "ich bin gelegen" and "ich bin geschlafen" respectively.
For some verbs which fall into this category, the use of "sein" as the auxiliary in the perfect can change to "haben" to avoid confusion between two verbs that would otherwise look the same in this tense, as in the case of "stehen" (to stand) and "gestehen" (to confess).
In the perfect these would be "ich bin gestanden" and "ich habe gestanden" respectively.
There are many official Austrian terms which differ from standard German.
With German being a legal language, which is due to Austria's exclusion from the development of a German nation-state in the late 19th century and its manifold particular traditions.
Early parts of the dispute over acronyns versus initialisms moved to /Archive 2.
It looks OK (apart from the castrated ram in the second para).
However, I think the subject could do with a bit of explanation about origins, because 'Alphabeticisms' and 'Initialisms' came first, at about 1899, and 'Acronyms' came along later (1940s).
There are a whole bunch of other words to discuss various abbreviations and contractions which need to be put into context as well.
Looking around, ISO 1087:1990 Section 5.2.2 describes all these sorts of things and how they should be used as science terminology, and both acronym and initialism are deprecated in favour of 'abbreviated form'.
I also asked at a meeting I was in today (seven other people), and just got blank stares when I mentioned initialism.
Perhaps your meeting says more about the circles you live in than the knowledge of the word&hellip; anyway.
The object of an encyclopedia is to inform, not to decide use.
If encyclopedias only propagated common errors and left out information which adds on already present knowledge, they would not be worth keeping.
By the way, I believe TLA stands for "Three Letter Abbreviation", so what needs to be changed?
I have never heard of This is better, however: *I don't think it is necessary to bore the reader with the details of the dispute in the first section of the article.
In my version, I moved the details of the dispute to a separate section.
The implication is that my definition is "not strict" or "lax", when in fact it is just as "strict" (=exact, precise), just different.
I think the adjective "exclusionary" (=of or related to the act or an instance of excluding) more neutrally describes your definition because the objective difference between the definitions is that your definition "excludes" many abbreviations in the category "acronym" that mine "includes".
I think it is far more NPOV to include them, but mark that their status as acronyms is disputed, as is the case in my version.
I would rather just define acronyms in the top paragraph, and only mention the confusion some people have about the term later on, but that could conceivably by you seen as "POV pushing".
Perhaps a split is needed there.
I used because there is no single word to describe acronyms, if initialisms are also called acronyms.
If you know of a better word, let me know.
Plus it further defeats the need for a separate "initialism acronym" article.
Are you so afraid of your points that you refuse to argue against anything I might say in response?
Your analysis betrays a fundamental misunderstand about how language works.
You and the others continual make an appeal to authority by quoting dictionary defintions, but I would think it would be obvious then when you make such an appeal you have to provide a justification as to why your authority should be believed.
As I have explained over and over and no one has been able to refute, "the only arbiter of English usage is usage itself", not flawed interpretations of entries in outdated and imperfect dictionaries.
And the sentence "She was friendly, outgoing, and had an endearing smile" is perfectly idiomatic English and only a tireless pedant who seeks to wedge formal logic into the infinitely illogical world of language would contest that.
People say and write English sentences like that all the time and the world hasn't imploded because your precious rules of parallel structure have been violated.
All the people who have told you otherwise were simply mistaken.
Furthermore, your appeal to consequences that going by the "most people" rule would lead to a irrevocable degeneration of language is such an old, trite, and trivial misunderstanding of how language change works that it's almost always covered and refuted in any introdutory linguistics class.
In sum, #The only arbiter of English usage is usage itself.
English is defined only by the preponderance of usage.
This is how language has always worked, and is how it will continue to work, regardless of how many "language experts" try to stop it.
When the newer meaning relating to mass media came into use, it is doubtless that there were those who protested this encroachment on the meaning of a valuable farming term.
The tides of usage flow only in one direction: towards continual change.
Nohat, your hostile attacks on anyone who refutes your claim that initialisms ARE acronyms are making it extremely difficult to work out a resolution.
Please consider that YOUR usage is not necessarily standard usage, and just because you believe you are correct does not make it so.
Sorry to intrude on private grief: to add my twopennyworth, I'm a speaker of British English, and I'd never heard of an initialism before reading this discussion.
The article ought to explain the techincal difference, but also point out the common usage.
If there is a serious difference of views, then the article ought to explain that too.
One view is that any abbreviation formed out of the initials of the contained words is an acronym, regardless of wether or not the abbreviation can be pronounced as a word.
Under this definition initialisms are not a distinct type of abbreviation, but rather a subset of acronyms.
This definition has no word to refer to acronyms which are not initialisms.
The opposite view is that abbreviations like "BBC" and "IBM" cannot be pronounced as single words, and therefore are not acronyms.
So you dispute that the word initialism is used to describe initialiams, and some people call these also acronyms, is a fact?
Oh, I also dispute there is a dispute: Nohat is the first person I have come across who insists unprouncable abbreviations can be acronyms.
So we agree there are people who use initialism, and people who don't.
As has been pointed out somewhere on this page, the distinction is not unique to the OED, but in common use among those who know what they're talking about.
Yes, but it should be addressed primarily at the general reader, with sufficient technical information to be useful to the specialist too.
I still fail to see what is apparently unacceptable about defining acronyms as acronyms, with a note that some people also call initialisms acronyms.
This should make both the "initialisms exist" and the "all abbreviations formed from initials are acronyms" crowd happy, right?
Yes thanks, I appreciate the help.
Nohat and I are not able to reach consensus apparently.
Feel free to edit /temp2 by the way.
As a pretty "neutral" outsider (I added only the "ichthys" Greek example, and it is pretty much not involved in this dispute) can I offer my take on what is being said, and make a stab at resolution?
We have some editors who are very adamant about the distinction between "acronym" and "initialism", and who are supported in their view primarily by the OED.
What about an introductory paragraph like that in Acronym/temp3?
On the initialism page, we would need to mention that American usage, and indeed the most common usage, does not distinguish them from acronyms or considers initialism to be a subset of acronyms.
If the term is is common usage in British English, for instance, a slight change to my introductory paragraph would be in order.
Of the other options presented thus far, I think that Acronym/temp2 is better; however, for some (perhaps many, yea even most, though I have no hard evidence about percentages there) readers, the distinction is not helpful for them finding the information they need.
For the professional, we provide that information a second time, perhaps in greater detail under initialism, which is linked from acronym.
On the contrary, a voice of reason.
I still see no reason why this 'dispute' is covered in the article.
It is very helpful indeed.
I have revised /temp2 based on your suggestions.
This Nohat drove me away from the article with his insults and intransigent attitude after I courteously tried to open a discussion on the talk page (rather than simply correcting the article without notice).
It was a very unpleasant experience, and I am not here for that.
That's why I dropped out from Wikipedia for more than a year.
I don't want to drop out again, so I am glad others are in there working him over.
It is pernicious to wilfully confuse technical terms in the way he seems determined to do.
I will not participate further, but you are welcome to see my description of the problems of the article (and his responses, judge for yourself) on the talk page.
I dispute the mistaken notion you and Nohat apparently share that initialism is a neologism.
The word initialism dates from the late nineteenth century.
Acronym pops up in main common usage only in the early 1940s.
Also note that originally acronyms were a subset of initialisms, and certainly only had the strict meaning: initialisms which could be pronounced as a word (NATO), rather than a series of letters (FBI).
At some point it seems some people began calling ALL initialisms acronyms, at which point initialism was restricted in meaning to 'acronyms which cannot be pronounced as a word'.
As Ortolan88 above I also note that Nohat's insults and his generally intransigent attitude over "his article" are the major problem here.
Except for Nohat all contributors seem reasonable and wiling to work out a compromise.
I don't think I share anything with Nohat.
For one thing, I have lots of hats.
I do wish people would indent these discussions.
Indeed, the OED says it's an older word than acronym, and has quotations to prove it.
I only claimed that it's a "rarely-used word", and I think that is borne out by the evidence.
Part of its definition of "acronym" says "an abbreviation (as FBI) formed from initial letters : INITIALISM", and its definition of "initialism" says, in entirety, "an acronym formed from initial letters".
This is false.
My claim is that initialisms are a "subset" of acronyms, as "Merriam-Webster" explains; not that they are the same set.
I am trying to insist that my definition is the only correct definition.
This too is false.
Every version of Acronym that I have supported has included the information that some people and some dictionary definitions support the view that initialisms that aren't pronounced as words aren't acronyms.
My only aim is that the article on acronyms treat the two definitions equally and not assert that one or the other is correct.
This is what I have attempted on Acronym/temp.
Both are supported by dictionary definitions.
Both are supported by usage in published books and on the web, and I don't see any valid reason why both shouldn't be treated equally on Acronym.
I think that titling the section on the dispute "initialisms as acronyms" is a little misleading.
The title "initialisms as acronym" is, I'm sorry to say, a suble push of the traditionalist POV in that it makes the assumption that "initialisms aren't acronyms", which is the core of the debate.
Despite the misconceptions some of the other posters have had that this dispute is somehow unique to Wikipedia, there is plenty of evidence that this very issue has been discussed and argued elsewhere.
Similarly, in the first paragraph, the traditional view is described as the "classical definition", giving it more weight than the newer view, which is merely ascribed to "some people".
It would be more neutral to describe both views using analogous terminology by stating that the status of certain abbreviations is disputed, without making the claim that they are or aren't acronyms.
Also, in the examples section, by not including examples of the disputed forms, it is pushing the POV that the traditional definition is correct.
In my version, I have revised this section to clearly indicate which are traditional acronyms, and which are disputed acronyms, without actually excluding them.
In all, despite the splenetic rhetoric, I think that we have made substantial progress on reaching a consensus.
Is there any opposition to making /temp2 into the article?
All objections to it would seem to be resolved now.
I wouldn't go so far as to say that all objections are resolved, since I still object to the use of "Many, including" to start the second sentence.
I have still not found a single person who has even heard of initialism, so I think it is craven to include that phrase.
Let me put this in context: next month I will have been working in the computer industry for 25 years, and in that time I and my colleagues have used acronyms on every single one of those working days.
On the odd occasion I actually form sentences where over half the words are acronyms!
I have created numerous glossaries and acronym lists, and no-one has ever corrected me.
I am by nature a pedant, (which is why I irritate my colleagues by using '-ize' rather than '-ise', as Fowler recommends), so if I had found that initialism was the correct form, then I would have adopted it.
You are, of course, quite correct on the initialism/acronym change-in-meaning, and this (complete with perhaps other points) should still be addressed, but I feel this should be done in the main article 'acronym' and not in multiple competing temp versions.
About the HTML tag: that merits mentioning in the article, as it strengthens the point that the term acronym has become dilluted in meaning since the 1940s.
What about "Primarily in professional linguism, people further distinguish (etc.)"?
I'm not clear how the idea that "professional linguists" are the ones who prefer the traditional definition got in here.
As I explained before, if you actually ask linguists, what you'll find is that they defend definitions that reflect actual usage.
Indeed, any "linguist" who takes a prescriptive view of usage could hardly be called "professional".
Nohat, please don't start this again.
Do you have any real objections, and suggestions on how to change them?
I think the phrase "Primarily in professional linguism" is unacceptably overstating the case.
The distinction between acronym and initialism is expressed in ordinary definitions in some ordinary desk dictionaries, such as the one that is within arm's reach of me as I write.
It's just a case of precise usage versus loose usage.
The latter category may be termed initialisms.
It was formulated in 1904 by Ernst Zermelo.
While it was originally controversial, it is now used without reservation by most mathematicians.
However, there are schools of mathematical thought, primarily within set theory, that either reject the axiom of choice or investigate consequences of axioms inconsistent with AC.
Or alternatively: An arbitrary Cartesian product of non-empty sets is non-empty.
Or most compactly: Every set of nonempty sets has a choice function.
This immediately permits a compact formulation of the negation of the axiom of choice: There exists a set of nonempty sets which has no choice function.
A second version of the axiom of choice states: Given any set of pairwise disjoint non-empty sets, there exists at least one set that contains exactly one element in common with each of the non-empty sets.
Some authors use a third version which effectively says: For any set A, the powerset of A (minus the empty set) has a choice function.
Authors who use this formulation often speak of the "choice function on A", but be advised that this is a slightly different notion of choice function.
With this alternate notion of choice function, the axiom of choice can be compactly stated as Every set has a choice function.
Until the late 19th century, the axiom of choice was often used implicitly, although it had not yet been formally stated.
Not every situation requires the axiom of choice.
In that case it is equivalent to saying that if we have several (a finite number of) boxes, each containing at least one item, then we can choose exactly one item from each box.
Clearly we can do this: We start at the first box, choose an item; go to the second box, choose an item; and so on.
The number of boxes is finite, so eventually our choice procedure comes to an end.
The result is an explicit choice function: a function that takes the first box to the first element we chose, the second box to the second element we chose, and so on.
Every nonempty set of natural numbers has a smallest element, so to specify our choice function we can simply say that it takes each set to the least element of that set.
This gives us a definite choice of an element from each set and we can write down an explicit expression that tells us what value our choice function takes.
Any time it is possible to specify such an explicit choice, the axiom of choice is unnecessary.
The difficulty appears when there is no natural choice of elements from each set.
If we cannot make explicit choices, how do we know that our set exists?
If we try to choose an element from each set, then, because "X" is infinite, our choice procedure will never come to an end, and consequently, we will never be able to produce a choice function for all of "X".
So that won't work.
Next we might try the trick of specifying the least element from each set.
But some subsets of the real numbers don't have least elements.
The reason that we are able to choose least elements from subsets of the natural numbers is the fact that the natural numbers come pre-equipped with a well-ordering: Every subset of the natural numbers has a unique least element under the natural ordering.
A proof requiring the axiom of choice is necessarily constructivists posit that all existence proofs should be totally explicit; it should be possible to construct anything that exists.
They reject the axiom of choice because it asserts the existence of an object without telling what it is.
On the other hand, the mere fact that one has used the axiom of choice to prove the existence of a set does not mean that it cannot be constructed by another method.
Another reason that some mathematicians dislike the axiom of choice is that it implies the existence of some bizarre counterintuitive objects.
On the other hand, the negation of the axiom of choice is also counterintuitive to some mathematicians.
A third possibility is to prove theorems using neither the axiom of choice nor its negation, a tactic preferred in constructive mathematics.
There are several weaker statements which are not equivalent to the axiom of choice, but which are closely related.
A simple one is the dense subset of the reals.
This axiom has the advantage of being consistent with the axiom that every subset of the real numbers is Lebesgue-measurable.
See also the axiom of uniformization.
So the decision whether or not it is appropriate to make use of the axiom of choice in a proof cannot be made by appeal to other axioms of set theory.
The decision must be made on other grounds.
One argument given in favor of using the axiom of choice is that it is convenient to use it: using it cannot hurt (cannot result in contradiction) and makes it possible to prove some propositions that otherwise could not be proved.
The axiom of choice is not the only significant statement which is independent of ZF.
For example, the generalized continuum hypothesis (GCH) is not only independent of ZF, but also independent of ZF plus the axiom of choice (ZFC).
However, ZF plus GCH implies AC, making GCH a strictly stronger claim than AC, even though they are both independent of ZF.
The generalized continuum hypothesis both imply the axiom of choice, but are strictly stronger than it.
There are several results in category theory which invoke the axiom of choice for their proof.
These results might be weaker than, equivalent to, or stronger than the axiom of choice, depending on the strength of the technical foundations.
One of the most interesting aspects of the axiom of choice is the large number of places in mathematics that it shows up.
Here are some statements that require the axiom of choice in the sense that they are not provable from ZF but are provable from ZFC (ZF plus AC).
Equivalently, these statements are true in all models of ZFC but false in some models of ZF.
Now, consider stronger forms of the negation of AC.
There are models of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory in which the axiom of choice is false.
For proofs, see Thomas Jech, "The Axiom of Choice", American Elsevier Pub.
These are sets, using the axiom of separation.
As this could be done for any proposition, this completes the proof that the axiom of choice implies the law of the excluded middle.
Forms of the axiom of separation are available in many constructive set theories.
This is a joke: although the three are all mathematically equivalent, most mathematicians find the axiom of choice to be intuitive, the well-ordering principle to be counterintuitive, and Zorn's lemma to be too complex for any intuition.
The observation here is that one can define a function to select from an infinite number of pairs of shoes by stating for example, to choose the left shoe.
Without the axiom of choice, one cannot assert that such a function exists for pairs of socks, because left and right socks are (presumably) indistinguishable from each other.
Dewdney This quote comes from the famous April Fools' Day article in the "computer recreations" column of the "Scientific American", April 1989.
Translated in: Jean van Heijenoort, 2002.
River to the Baltic Sea (see map below).
He reached Constantinople and Rome but refrained from attacking either city.
In much of Norse sagas.
The origin of the Turkic people, descended from the warlike Xiongnu (or Hsiung-nu) tribes that menaced China as early as the 5th century BC, and perhaps much earlier.
The first emperor of China, Qin Shi Huangdi, built part of the Great Wall to keep the Huns out.
There was a rumor that Attila attacked a place and then saw a woman named N'Kara and pretended to take her as hostage but instead he married her.
Their united power appeared or began to form in Europe in 5th century.
They achieved military superiority over their neighbors (most of them highly cultured and civilized) by their readiness for combat, unusual mobility, and weapons including the composite bow.
By 432 the Huns were united under Rugila.
The Huns, satisfied with the treaty, decamped from the empire and returned to their home, perhaps to consolidate and strengthen their empire.
Theodosius used this opportunity to strengthen the walls of Constantinople, building the city's first sea wall, and to build up his border defenses along the Danube.
Huns remained out of Roman sight for the next 5 years as they tried to invade the Sassanid Persians caused them to abandon this attempt and return their attentions to Europe.
In 440 they reappeared on the borders of the Roman Empire, attacking the merchants at the market on the north bank of the Danube that had been established by the treaty.
They crossed the Danube and laid waste to Illyrian cities and forts on the river, among them, according to Priscus, Viminacium, which was a city of the Moesians in Illyria.
Their advance began at Margus, for when the Romans discussed handing over the offending bishop, he slipped away secretly to the Huns and betrayed the city to them.
Theodosius had stripped the river's defenses in response to the Vandal Yazdegerd II's invasion of Armenia in 441.
This left Attila and Bleda a clear path through Illyria into the Balkans, which they invaded in 441.
The Hunnish army, having sacked Margus and Viminacium, took Singidunum (modern Belgrade) and Sirmium before halting.
A lull followed in 442 and during this time Theodosius recalled his troops from North Africa and ordered a large new issue of coins to finance operations against the Huns.
Having made these preparations, he thought it safe to refuse the Hunnish kings' demands.
Attila responded by renewing their campaign in 443.
Their demands met for a time, the Hun kings withdrew into the interior of their empire.
According to Jordanes (following Priscus), sometime during the peace following the Huns' withdrawal from Byzantium (probably around 445), Bleda died (killed by his brother, according to the classical sources), and Attila took the throne for himself.
In 447 Attila again rode south into the empire through Vid and was defeated, though not without inflicting heavy losses.
The Huns were left unopposed and rampaged through the Balkans as far as Thermopylae.
Constantinople itself was saved by the intervention of the prefect Flavius Constantinus who organized the reconstruction of the walls that had been previously damaged by earthquakes, and, in some places, to construct a new line of fortification in front of the old.
Huns, which was in Thrace, became so great that more than a hundred cities were captured and Constantinople almost came into danger and most men fled from it.
And there were so many murders and blood-lettings that the dead could not be numbered.
Attila ate nothing but meat on a wooden trencher.
In everything else, too, he showed himself temperate; his cup was of wood, while to the guests were given goblets of gold and silver.
His dress, too, was quite simple, affecting only to be clean.
He dug it up and took it straight to Attila.
Jordanes, "The Origin and Deeds of the Goths" ch.
In 450 Attila had proclaimed his intent to attack the powerful alliance with Emperor Valentinian III in order to do so.
Meanwhile the king of the Salian Franks had died and the succession struggle between his two sons drove a rift between Attila and Aetius; Attila supported the elder son, while Aetius supported the younger.
On April 7, he captured Metz, and Aetius moved to oppose him, gathering troops from among the Franks, the Burgundians, and the Celts.
A mission by Avitus, and Attila's continued westward advance, convinced the Visigoth king Theodoric I (Theodorid) to ally with the Romans.
The combined armies reached Orleans ahead of Attila, thus checking and turning back the Hunnish advance.
He dreaded the glory which his allies the Visigoths had acquired, and feared that Rome might find a second Alaric in Prince Thorismund, who had signalized himself in the battle, and had been chosen on the field to succeed his father, Theodoric.
Attila returned in 452 to claim his marriage to Honoria anew, invading and ravaging Po.
After Attila left Italy and returned to his palace across the Danube, he planned to strike at Constantinople again and reclaim the tribute which Marcian had cut off.
His sons Ellac (his appointed successor), Dengizich, and Ernakh fought over the division of his legacy, specifically which vassal kings would belong to which brother.
As a consequence they were divided, defeated and scattered the following year in the Battle of Nedao by the Ostrogoths and the Gepids under Ardaric.
According to Jordanes, Ardaric, who was once Attila's most prized chieftain, turned against the feuding brothers when he felt that they were treating the nations they ruled as slaves.
Attila's many children and relatives are known by name and some even by deeds, but soon valid genealogical sources all but dry up and there seems to be no verifiable way to trace Attila's descendants.
This hasn't stopped many genealogists from attempting to reconstruct a valid line of descent for various medieval rulers.
One of the most credible claims has been that of the tsars of Bulgaria (see Nominalia of the Bulgarian khans).
A popular, but ultimately unconfirmed attempt tries to relate Attila to Charlemagne (see Attila the Hun to Charlemagne).
There is no surviving first-person account of Attila's appearance.
Attila has been portrayed in various ways, sometimes as a noble ruler, sometimes as a cruel barbarian.
In ancient times there were various explanations for the name Aegean.
Alex's perspective is effective in that the way that he describes events is easy to relate to, even if the situations themselves are not.
He uses words that are common in speech, as well as Nadsat, the speech of particular younger generation subcultures.
Essentially, the first part of the novel is a character study of the protagonist.
There is a general disregard for the law and for older generations &mdash; creating an image of a youth movement that is taking control of this fictional future.
Part 1 involves Alex reflecting on his illegal activity (which involves the rape of two 10-year-old girls, and also the wife of writer F. Alexander).
It describes the treachery of his droogs, resulting in Alex's capture and prison sentence for murder.
The use of lyrical language and Nadsat somewhat masks the horrible imagery of Alex's actions, and, to some extent, Alex is able to draw empathy from the reader, through his friendly nature towards his audience (referring to them as his "only friends," and to himself as "Your Humble Narrator," etc.).
After being caught for his crimes Alex is sentenced to 14 years for murder.
Alex gets a job as an assistant to the prison chaplain.
He feigns an interest in religion, and amuses himself by reading the Bible for its lurid descriptions of "the old yahoodies (Jews) tolchocking (beating) each other", imagining himself taking part in "the nailing-in" (the Crucifixion of Jesus).
Alex hears about an experimental rehabilitation programme called "the Ludovico Technique", which promises that the prisoner will be released upon completion of the two-week treatment, and will not commit crimes afterwards.
Partially by taking part in the fatal beating of a cellmate, Alex manages to become the subject in the first full-scale trial of the Ludovico Technique.
The technique itself is a form of aversion therapy, in which Alex is given a drug that induces extreme nausea while being forced to watch graphically violent films for two weeks.
Among the films shown are propaganda films such as "Triumph of the Will", which includes Alex's beloved Beethoven (last movement of the 9th symphony).
He pleads with them to remove the music, but the clinicians refuse, saying it's "for his own good," and that the music may be the "punishment element".
At the end of the treatment, Alex is unable to carry out or even contemplate violence without crippling nausea.
He is also unable to listen to classical music without experiencing the same jarring physical reaction.
The third part of the novel concentrates mostly on the following punishment to which Alex is subjected after his treatment.
Alex encounters many of his former victims, all of whom seek revenge upon him.
He finds himself powerless to defend himself against them, due to feelings of sickness and fear of death, as a reaction to the violence.
He finds he has been replaced by his parents for a lodger in his home, and wanders into the public library, only to be attacked by an aging old man who he had beaten up with his droogs in chapter one.
The police are called by the librarian and when they arrive, he sees that the police are no other than his old 'droog' Dim, and arch enemy Billy Boy.
Taking advantage of their positions, they take Alex into a rural part of town to beat him up, and then leave him to his own devices.
Alex often refers to himself as "Your Humble Narrator".
At the point of raping two ten year old girls, Alex reveals himself as "Alexander The Large".
However, following the attempted suicide the newspapers state his name as 'Alex Burgess' very clearly.
A droog of Alex's.
Georgie attempts to undermine Alex's status as leader of the gang.
A droog of Alex's.
The more rational, democratic member of Alex's gang.
A slow-witted droog of Alex's.
The real brute force of the gang.
An overweight gang leader whose gang clashes with Alex's droogs.
Becomes a cop along with Dim.
A social worker assigned to Alex, who monitors his progress through reform schools.
The only character who is truly concerned about Alex's welfare; he is not taken seriously by Alex, though.
One of the co-founders of the Ludovico Technique.
He at first seemed like a friend to Alex, and then introduced him to pain.
Plays the "Bad Cop" role when talking to Alex before and after his sessions in the theater.
The other Co-Founder of the Ludovico Technique.
He says much less than Brodsky and is interpreted as the "Good Cop" role when addressing Alex.
An author writing, at the beginning of the novel, his own novel called "A Clockwork Orange".
His wife is raped by Alex and his droogs, and subsequently dies.
He later takes Alex in and subjects him to his extremist friends.
Shortly after meeting it is possible that they try to kill him using the weaknesses caused by the Ludovico Technique.
After Kubrick's film was released, Burgess wrote a "Clockwork Orange" stage play.
In 2002, Godlight Theatre Company presented the New York Premiere adaptation of Anthony Burgess's 'A Clockwork Orange' at Manhattan Theatre Source.
The production went on to play at the SoHo Playhouse (2002), Ensemble Studio Theatre (2004), 59E59 Theaters (2005) and the Edinburgh Festival Fringe (2005).
While at Edinburgh, the production received rave reviews from the press while playing to sold-out audiences.
The production was directed by Godlight's Artistic Director, Joe Tantalo.
In the 1995 film Tales from the Hood, A character undergoes a similar rehablitation technique.
Wapen van Amsterdam bewerkt.
The metropolitan area with Amsterdam at its center has a population of 2,2 million inhabitants and is part of the conurbation Randstad, with a population of 6,659,300 inhabitants.
Amsterdam was given Alteration to the protestant faith; today the Stille Omgang - a silent procession in civil dress - remains of the rich pilgrimage history.
In the Jews from Spain and Portugal, prosperous merchants and printers from Antwerp, Ghent and Bruges (economic and religious refugees from the part of the Low Countries still controlled by Spain), and Huguenots from France (persecuted for their religion) sought safety in Amsterdam.
The influx of Flemish printers and it's intellectual tolerance made Amsterdam a hotbed of the European free press.
The stock exchange was the first to trade continuously.
The 18th and early 19th centuries saw a decline in Amsterdam's prosperity.
The wars of the Dutch Republic with England (see Anglo-Dutch Wars) and France took their toll on Amsterdam.
During the Napoleonic Wars, Amsterdam's fortunes reached their lowest point.
However, with the establishment of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815, things slowly began to improve.
In Amsterdam new developments were started by people like city planner Samuel Sarphati, who found their inspiration in Paris.
The end of the 19th century is sometimes called Amsterdam's second Golden Age.
New museums, a train station, and the Photo of the historical centre in 2006 Shortly before the World War I the city began expanding and new suburbs were built.
During the war, the Netherlands remained neutral.
Amsterdam suffered a food shortage, and heating fuel became scarce.
The shortages sparked riots in which several people were killed.
Amsterdam fans out south from Amsterdam Centraal railway station.
The main street is Damrak which leads into Rokin.
Much of the Amsterdam canal system is the successful outcome of earthen dikes, with gates at transit points but otherwise no masonry superstructures.
Over the years, several canals have been filled up and are now streets or squares, such as Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal and Spui.
Amsterdam enjoys a moderate temperate climate, with the weather patterns being strongly influenced by Amsterdam's proximity to the North Sea to the west and its prevailing north-western winds and gales.
Winter temperatures are mild: on average above freezing, although precipitation are common, but still Amsterdam averages less than 760 mm of precipitation annually.
Most of it falls as protracted drizzle or light rain.
But the occasional Western storm may bring a lot of water at once, and all of it has to be pumped out to higher ground and to the seas around the city.
These bodies of water make cloudy and damp days common, particularly in cooler months, October through March.
Amsterdam is the financial and business capital of the Netherlands and one of the most important cities in Europe in which to do business.
Many large Dutch corporations and banks have their headquarters in Amsterdam, including ABN Amro, Akzo Nobel, Heineken International, ING Group, Ahold, TomTom, Delta Lloyd Group and Philips.
International's global headquarters is located in nearby Amstelveen, as is the European headquarters of Cisco Systems.
Though many subsidiaries are located along the old canals, companies are increasingly relocating outside the city centre.
The Amsterdam Stock Exchange (AEX) is part of Euronext, and is the world's oldest stock exchange.
It still is one of the most important in Europe.
In the 16th and 17th century non-Dutch immigrants to Amsterdam were mostly Huguenots, Flemings, Sephardi Jews and Westphalians.
Hugenots came after 1685's Edict of Fontainebleau, while the Flemish Protestants came during the Eighty Years' War.
The first mass immigrants in the 20th century were people from planological bill of the Dutch government.
Young professionals and artists moved into neighbourhoods the Pijp and the Jordaan abandoned by these Amsterdammers.
The non-Western immigrants settled mostly in the social housing projects in Amsterdam-West and the Bijlmer.
La Population des villes Europeennes.
Calvinism became the dominant religion and although Catholicism was not forbidden and priests allowed to serve, the Catholic hierarchy was prohibited.
A large influx of foreigners of many religions into 17th-century Amsterdam, in particular Dutch-speaking religious churches.
In 1603 the first notification is made of Jewish religious service.
In 1639 the first Jewish synagogue was consecrated.
As they became established in the city, other Christian denominations used converted Catholic chapels to conduct their own services.
The oldest French.
Catholic churches in Amsterdam have been constructed since the restoration of the bishopric hierarchy in 1853.
One of the principal architects behind the city's Catholic churches, Cuypers, was also responsible for the Amsterdam Central Station and the William III to open 'that monastery'.
In 1924 the Roman Catholic Church of the Netherlands hosted the International Eucharistic Congress in Amsterdam, and numerous Catholic prelates visited the city, where numerous festivities were held in churches and stadiums; Catholic processions on the public streets however were still forbidden under law at the time.
Only in the twentieth century did Amsterdam's relation to Catholicism normalised, but despite its far larger population size, the Catholic clergy chose to place its bishopric seat of the city in the nearby provincial town of Haarlem.
The most recent religious changes in Amsterdam are due to large-scale immigration from former colonies.
Immigrants from Suriname have introduced Evangelical Protestantism and Lutheranism, from the Hernhutter variety, Hinduism, and a liberal branch of Islam.
Turks, Kurds and Moroccans have introduced other Islamic sects.
The large community of Ghanaian and Nigerian immigrants have established African churches, often in parking garages in the Bijlmer area, where many have settled.
In addition, a broad array of other religious movements have been established congregations, including Buddhism, Confucianism, Hare Krishna, Bhagwan and Scientology.
The artist most associated with Amsterdam is Rijksmuseum.
Amsterdam has a world-class symphony orchestra, the Concertgebouworkest, the home base of which is the Concertgebouw.
Amsterdam has developed itself into a European fashion capital.
Big fashion brands like G-star, 10 feet and Warmenhoven & Venderbos and fashion designers like Mart Visser Viktor & Rolf, Marlies Dekkers and Frans Molenaar are headquartered in Amsterdam.
Also model agencies like Elite Models, Touche models and Tony Jones have opened departments in Amsterdam.
Supermodels like Yfke Sturm, Doutzen Kroes and Kim Noorda started their career in Amsterdam.
Amsterdam is also known for its World Fashion Centre.
Visitors are attracted to Amsterdam for its reputation as a liberal city; its relaxed charm emphasised by elegant, narrow fronted merchant's houses and enchanting canals; and the reputation of its museums.
The major museums are the Rijksmuseum, the Stedelijk Museum, the Rembrandt House Museum, and the Van Gogh Museum, which houses the largest collection of Van Gogh's paintings and drawings in the world.
The Anne Frank House, a museum dedicated to the story of Anne Frank, is also a popular tourist attraction.
The liberal nature of Amsterdam is not only physically embodied in the layout of the city such as, the coffeeshops which sell cannabis but it is also embodied in the well-rounded, prevailing attitudes of its residents, government and businesses.
Amsterdam's red-light district is located in the centre of the city and is clearly marked on maps.
Window prostitution in the Netherlands is legal at specific places.
Cannabis selling, however, is not - but it is tolerated when small quantities of cannabis (up to 5 grams) are involved.
Previously in Amsterdam a handful of smart shops sold psilocybin mushrooms and drug paraphernalia.
However psilocybin mushrooms have recently been made illegal.
Though illegal to consume in public, these mushrooms are still sold by several smart shops.
Its home base is the modern stadium Amsterdam ArenA, located in the south-east of the city.
In 1928, Amsterdam hosted the Olympic Stadium built for the occasion has been completely restored and is now used for cultural and sporting events, such as the Amsterdam Marathon.
The city also has a Dutch Major League.
Since 1999 the city of Amsterdam has honoured its best sportsmen and -women at the Amsterdam Sports Awards.
Boxer Raymond Joval and field hockey midfielder Carole Thate were the first to receive the awards in 1999.
Amsterdam is one of the most bike racks, which are ubiquitous throughout the city.
There are an estimated one million bicycles in the city.
However, bike theft is common, so cyclists use large secure locks.
In the city centre, driving a car is discouraged.
Public transport in Amsterdam mainly consists of bus and tram lines, operated by IJ to Amsterdam-Noord, and two fare charging ferries go east and west along the harbour.
There are also water taxis and a water bus, in addition to the canal cruises, that transport people along Amsterdam's waterways.
The s100 is called the centrumring, a smaller ringroad circumnavigating the city centre.
Amsterdam has two universities: the coffee plant that served as the parent for the entire coffee culture in Central and South America.
Amsterdam is thought to have excellent primary schools.
Some of these schools base their teachings on particular pedagogic theories like the various Montessori schools.
Many however are based on religion.
This used to be primarily Roman Catholicism and various Protestant denominations, but with the influx of Muslim immigrants there is a rise in the number of Muslim schools.
In addition to these schools based on distinct beliefs there are public schools.
The same goes for secondary education.
Needs area info!
Amsterdam is usually understood to be the municipality of Amsterdam.
Colloquially, some areas within the municipality, such as the village of Durgerdam, may not be considered part of Amsterdam.
Fourteen of these have their own council, chosen by a popular election.
The fifteenth, Westpoort, covers the harbour of Amsterdam, has very few inhabitants, and is governed by the central municipal council.
Local decisions are made at borough level, and only affairs pertaining to the whole city, such as major infrastructure projects, are handled by the central city council.
The present version of the supreme court of the Netherlands is (and always has been, with the exception of a brief period between 1808 and 1810) located at The Hague.
Foreign embassies too are in The Hague.
The coat of arms of Amsterdam is composed of several historical elements.
First and centre are three Republic of the Seven United Netherlands.
As a result, the film could not be seen in Britain for some 27 years, until after Kubrick's death.
Seems to be useful information if true.
Why not include it?
I must have deleted it accidentally when I added the plot summary.
I got the year wrong!
The novel as written and as published in Great Britain is divided into three parts of seven chapters apiece.
The first American edition, upon which the movie was based, omits the 21st chapter.
In this closing chapter, Alex is presented as having survived and recuperated somewhat from his manipulative experiences.
He encounters Pete, another former member of his gang, who has become a responsible citizen (in contrast to Georgie and Dim, who became brutal policemen).
English expression "as queer as a clockwork orange"".
I didn't get much info on the usage of the phrase.
One website says the phrase was in use in the 1920s.
Anthony Burgess was born only in 1917, and the book written in 1962.
If there are any Londoners here, they can research on the origins of the phrase.
By the way, Burgess himself, in the preface of the book says he took the title from the phrase.
Burgess's title is the first recorded use of the phrase, and no-one knows if he made it up or not.
I believe the Italian translation of "Clockwork Orange" is actually "Arancia Meccanica", as in "Mechanical Orange".
But I suppose the meaning is the same.
The title of the first Italian translation of the book (1968) was indeed the literal "Un'arancia a orologeria".
The 1971 film was translated as "Arancia meccanica".
Recent reprints of the book have adopted the film title, most likely because the expression has become with the years a catch-all phrase in the Italian language to indicate any sort of juvenile group violence.
I've noticed that we now have a paragraph about "A Clockwork Orgy," the pornographic take-off of Kubrick's film.
The article mentioned this particular "derivative work" before, but the passage was claimed to be irrelevant and therefore got nixed.
Though neither of these pages are anywhere near as confused or biased as the Dune page, for example, I cannot see how serious future contributions can be made without muddling things up even further.
As for the names of the new articles, ACO is straightforward enough: the book came first, and the film was adapted later.
I was just going through and updating the ISFDB links, so I left things as they were.
But someone better informed than I might want to fix the listing if it is, in fact, broken.
It is generally considered to be a fantastic, top notch book.
It seems to me that an awful lot of stuff about the Kubrick movie has ended up on a page about the novel.
This article appears to treat the details of the novel and the film as synonymous.
That whole sequence was different in the book, Alex never sang singing in the rain in the book.
I thought this was only his name in the movie, and that his last name was never revealed in the book.
Why was the 21st chapter omitted from early U.S. editions?
Yes, not sure how else to do this considering that I have not ever edited or such before but would like to add that this section needs expanding.
There doen't seem to be much actual discussion on the significance part from the invention of a subcultural register.
Would like to know how it was recieved and perhaps the main themes of the book.
I believe that it is dystopian, especially by the Wikepedia article's definition.
A dystopia is usually characterized by an authoritarian or totalitarian form of government, or some other kind of oppressive social control.
Why does it say the authors name is F. D. Alexander.
I have a copy of the book with me and it is F. Alexander.
Where has the D come from?
Also, it is definitley a Dystoptian novel.
These turned out to be inaccurate.
I have a suspicion that Wikipedia articles tend to attract too much plot detail for their own good.
That is, the presence of a plot summary tends to attract more people who "can add something" and add another detail, until any encyclopedic value of the summary is swamped like a high school book report with detail.
There's far too much stuff in almost any movie and TV plot synopsis on Wikipedia.
Less can be more.
If you need a hyper-detailed, linear description of single every event in the film, you'd be better served by the film itself.
I'm not advocating something like "Alex likes Beethoven and rape, he gets caught robbing a woman, undergoes a new therapy, ends up damaged, and is cured of his therapy," but some stuff needs to go.
Secondly, the theories put forth about Bugress' invention and use of Nasdat seem to be either "original research" (and hence should be removed), or require citations.
Is it true that Burgess used Nasdat to avoid the book getting dated?
This slavic connections seems stupid to me, so what if some names could be russian WHO CARES, people dont read these articles to find out if dim could be a russian name shortened.
I disagree completely he's a protagonist.
He's the main character is he not?
Antagonists oppose the protagonist and how can the scientists be the protagonists?
They're not in it till halfway through.
Absolutely without a doubt he is the protagonist!
He is the main character.
The story revolves around him.
However you choose to interpret his morality is totally and completely arbitrary and irrelevent.
Good and evil has nothing whatsoever to do with him being or not being the protagonist, it has to do with the role he plays in the story.
You could very well write a story and construct it as so the devil himself was the protagonist (as has most likely been done).
I just wanted to back up the guy above me and reenforce what he said to help avoid confusion.
Again, this is not opinion.
To say that Alex's forced suicide attempt was not something that was deliberately planned by the writer (the writer character) is foolishness.
Clear as day and without speculation, this is what he had intended to happen.
It was for revenge BUT ALSO 2.
Please go to fair use rationale.
If there is other fair use media, consider checking that you have specified the fair use rationale on the other images used on this page.
Note that any fair use images uploaded after 4 May, 2006, and lacking such an explanation will be deleted one week after they have been uploaded, as described on Media copyright questions page.
Horch and DKW, the former having incorporated the historic Audi company which was founded in 1910.
Audi's corporate UK, and in other markets, such as Latin America, Oceania and parts of Asia including Japan.
The American and Canadian tagline is "Truth in Engineering".
Unsourced image removed: Press photograph of the then newly merged Audi NSU range, 1969.
Audi started with a 2612 Rickenbacker including the manufacturing equipment for eight cylinder engines.
These engines were used in "Audi Zwickau" and "Audi Dresden" models that were launched in 1929.
At the same time, six cylinder and four cylinder (licensed from Peugeot) models were manufactured.
Audi cars of that era were luxurious cars equipped with special bodywork.
In 1932 Audi merged with Wanderer to form Auto Union.
Another vehicle which was used in World War II to shuttle German military officials safely was known as the Kraftfahrzeug (KFZ 11) or the Horch Type 80.
The military used it as a light transport vehicle.
Auto Union plants were heavily bombed and partly destroyed during World War II.
After the war, Zwickau soon became part of the German Democratic Republic and the Auto Union AG got broken up and named VEB Automobilwerk Zwickau.
The new Firm was launched in Ingolstadt still using the old name.
Many employees of the destroyed factories in Zwickau came to Ingolstadt and restarted production of cars under the DKW label.
These cars were equipped with two stroke engines.
They based on a pre war construction and were also built in Zwickau in a very similar way.
Developments of the model were named for their horsepower ratings and sold as the Audi 60, 75, 80, and Super 90.
These models sold until 1972.
In 1969, Auto Union merged with NSU, based in Neckarsulm near Stuttgart.
In the 1950s NSU had been the world's largest manufacturer of motorcycles but had moved on to produce small cars like the NSU Prinz (the TT and TTS versions are still popular as vintage race cars).
In 1967, the new NSU Ro 80 was a space-age car well ahead of its time in technical details such as aerodynamics, light weight, and safety, but teething problems with the rotary engines put an end to the independence of NSU.
The mid-sized car that NSU had been working on, the K70, was intended to slot between the rear-engined Prinz models and the futuristic Ro80.
However, Volkswagen took the K70 for its own range, spelling the end of NSU as a separate brand.
The new merged company was known as "Audi NSU Auto Union AG", and saw the emergence of Audi as a separate brand for the first time since the pre-war era.
Volkswagen introduced the Audi brand to the United States for the 1970 model year.
The first new car of this regime was the Golf/Polo concept, one that led to a hugely successful world car.
In 1985, with the Auto Union and NSU brands effectively dead, the company's official name was now shortened to simply "Audi AG".
In 1986, as the Passat-based Audi 80 was beginning to develop a kind of "grandfather's car" image, the type 89 was introduced.
This completely new development sold extremely well.
This decline in sales was not helped in the USA by a "60 Minutes" report which purported to show that Audi automobiles suffered from "unintended acceleration".
The "60 Minutes" report was based on customer reports of acceleration when the brake pedal was pushed.
Independent investigators concluded that this was most likely due to a close placement of the accelerator and brake pedals (unlike American cars), and the inability, when not paying attention, to distinguish between the two.
This did not become an issue in Europe, possibly due to more widespread experience among European drivers with manual transmissions.
In the early part of this century, Audi set forth on a German racetrack to claim and maintain several World Records, such as Top Speed Endurance.
This effort was in-line with the company's heritage from the 1930's racing era "Siver Arrows".
Currently, Audi's sales are growing strongly in Europe.
Record figures were recorded from 21 out of about 50 major sales markets.
Audi has recently started offering a computerised control system for its cars called Multi Media Interface (MMI).
This comes amid criticism of BMW's iDrive control, essentially a rotating control knob designed to control radio, satellite navigation, TV, heating and car controls with a screen.
The screen, either colour or monochrome, is mounted on the upright dashboard, and on the A6 and A8, the controls are mounted horizontally.
However, an "MMI Like" system is also available on the Audi A3 and A4 models when equipped with the optional Navigation System.
Audi has competed in numerous forms of auto racing.
Audi's rich tradition in motorsport began with the Auto Union in the 1930s.
In the 1990s Audi dominated the Touring and Super Touring categories of motor racing after success in circuit racing Stateside.
In 1980 Audi released the rallies and races worldwide.
It is considered one of the most significant rally cars of all time because it was one of the first to take advantage of the then-recently changed rules which allowed the use of all-wheel-drive in competition racing.
Many critics doubted the viability of all-wheel-drive racers, thinking them to be too heavy and complex, yet the Quattro was to become a successful car.
Leading its first rally it went off the road, however the rally world had been served notice AWD was the future.
It won competition after competition for the next two years.
In 1984 Audi launched the short-wheelbase Sport Quattro car which dominated races in Pikes Peak Hill Climb.
As Audi moved away from rallying and into circuit racing, they chose to move first into America with the Trans-Am in 1988.
In 1989, Audi moved to 90, however as they avoided the two major endurance events (Daytona and Sebring) despite winning on a regular basis, they would lose out on the title.
In 1990, having completed their objective to market cars in the United States, Audi returned to Europe turning first to the Italian Superturismo.
In the following year, Audi would switched to the German Super Tourenwagen (known as STW) and then to British Touring Car Championship (BTCC) the year after that.
By 2000, Audi would still compete in the US with their RS6.
Once again, the quattro all wheel drive was superior and Champion Audi won the championship.
They returned in 2004 to defend their title but a newcomer, Cadillac with the new Omega Chassis CTS-V, gave them a run for their money.
After four victories in a row, the Audis were sanctioned with several negative changes that deeply affected the car's performance.
Namely, added ballasts and Champion Audi deciding to go with different tires and backing off the turbos boost pressure.
In 2004, after years of competing with the TT-R in the revitalized DTM series, with privateer team A4s.
Beginning in 1999, Audi built the LMP900 class at the 24 hours of Le Mans.
At the 2005 24 Hours of Le Mans, Champion Racing entered two R8s along with an R8 from the Audi PlayStation Team Judd.
But with a team of excellent drivers and experience, both Champion R8s were able to take first and third while the ORECA team took fourth.
The Champion team was also the first American team to win Le Mans since the Gulf Ford GT's in 1967.
This also ends the long era of the R8; however, its replacement for 2006, called the Audi R10, was unveiled on December 13, 2005.
The R10 employs many new features, including a twin-turbocharged diesel engine.
Its first race was the 2006 12 Hours of Sebring as a race-test for the 2006 24 Hours of Le Mans, which it later went on to win.
Audi has been on the forefront of motorsports, claiming a historic win in the first ever diesel sports car at 12 Hours of Sebring.
Audi has achieved the title as the most dominant motor sport power since the start of the 21st century, continuing its long and storied motor sport heritage.
Audi produces 100% galvanized vehicles to prevent corrosion, and was the first mass-market vehicle to do so, following introduction of the process by Porsche, c.1978.
Along with other precautionary measures, the thus achieved full-body zinc coating has proved to be very effective in preventing rust and corrosion perforation.
The body's resulting durability even surpassed Audi's own expectations, causing the manufacturer to extend its original 10-year warranty against corrosion perforation to currently 12 years.
An all-aluminium car was brought forward by Audi, and in 1994 the Audi A8 was launched, which introduced aluminum space frame technology (called "Audi Space Frame").
Audi introduced a new series of vehicles in the mid-nineties and continues to pursue leading-edge technology and high performance.
Prior to that effort, Audi used examples of the Type 44 chassis fabricated out of aluminum as test-beds for the technique.
At one time, a copy of this body was fitted with a turbine engine, gaining a World record for mpg in a full-sized car, approximately 200mpg.
The all-aluminum concept was extended to the company's new sub-compact, the Audi A2 which was launched in 2001, although this model was withdrawn from production late in 2005 as the costs of producing an all-aluminium small car proved too high for many buyers looking for a small semi-luxurious car.
The aluminium body has proved better suited to larger executive models such as the large A8 saloon.
In all its post Volkswagen-era models, Audi has firmly refused to adopt the traditional A5 coupe in 2007, and the B8 A4 range, which will feature the engine mounted behind the front wheels.
Through the early 1990s, Audi began to move more towards the position of being a real competitor in its target market against global luxury leaders Mercedes-Benz and BMW.
This began with the release of the Audi V8 in 1990.
It was essentially a new engine fitted to the Audi 100/200, but with noticeable bodywork differences.
Most obvious was the new grille that was now incorporated in the bonnet.
By 1991, Audi had the 4 cylinder Audi 200 and the Audi V8.
There was also a coupe version of the 80/90 with both 4 and 5 cylinder engines.
Although the five cylinder engine was a successful and very robust powerplant, it was still a little too different for the target market.
The 5 cylinder was soon dropped as a major engine choice; however, a turbocharged 230 hp (169 kW) version remained.
The engine, initially fitted to the 200 quattro 20V of 1991, was a derivative of the engine fitted to the Sport Quattro.
It was fitted to the Audi Coupe and named the S2 and also to the Audi 100 body, and named the S4.
These two models were the beginning of the mass-produced S series of performance cars.
The V8 in 1994, with a revolutionary aluminium "Audi Space Frame" (ASF) to save weight.
The weight reduction was offset by the quattro all-wheel drive system.
It meant the car had similar performance to its rivals, but superior roadholding.
The next major model change was in 1995 when the TT coupe and roadster were debuted in 1998 based on the same underpinnings.
Another interesting model introduced was the Mercedes-Benz A-Class competitor, the Audi A2.
The model sold relatively well in Europe, however, the A2 was discontinued in 2005 and Audi decided not to develop an immediate replacement.
At the turn of the century, Audi introduced the TT models.
In 2001, Audi released a high performance version of the A8, dubbed S8.
New models of the A3, A4, A6 and A8 have been introduced, with the aging 1.8 litre engine now having been replaced by new FSI (Fuel Stratified Injection) engines.
All TDI models are diesels.
Aircraft fall into two broad categories: Lighter-than-air, called "aerostats", and heavier-than-air, called "aerodynes".
Small hot air balloons called sky lanterns date back to the 3rd century BC and were only the second type of aircraft to fly, the first being kites.
Originally a "balloon" was any aerostat, while the term "airship" was used for large powered aircraft &mdash; usually fixed-wing &mdash; though none had yet been built.
The advent first of powered balloons, called dirigible balloons, and later of rigid hulls allowing a vast increase in size, began to change things.
Huge powered aerostats, characterized by a balloon" is an unpowered aerostat, whilst an "airship" is a powered one.
Sometimes this term is applied only to non-rigid balloons, and sometimes "dirigible balloon" is regarded as the definition of an airship (which may then be rigid or non-rigid).
Non-rigid dirigibles are characterized by a moderately aerodynamic gasbag with stabilizing fins at the back.
In modern times we tend to call any small dirigible or airship a blimp, though a blimp may be unpowered as well as powered.
Heavier-than-air aircraft must find some way to push air or gas downwards, so that a reaction occurs (by Newton's laws of motion) to push the aircraft upwards.
This dynamic movement through the air is the origin of the term "aerodynamic lift", and "powered lift" in the form of engine thrust.
With powered lift, the aircraft directs its engine thrust vertically downwards.
A pure rocket is not usually regarded as an aerodyne, because it does not depend on the air for its lift (and can even fly into space), however many aerodynamic lift vehicles have been powered or assisted by rocket motors.
Rocket-powered missiles which obtain aerodynamic lift at very high speed due to airflow over their bodies, are a marginal case.
A kite depends upon the tension between the cord which anchors it to the ground and the force of the wind currents.
Kites were the first kind of aircraft to fly, and were invented in China around 500 BC.
Much aerodynamic research was done with kites before test aircraft, wind tunnels and most recently computer modelling programs became available.
Aeroplanes are generally characterized by their wing configuration.
Sometimes two or more wings are stacked one above the other.
But bracing causes a large amount of drag at higher speeds, so it is no longer used for faster designs.
Most low-speed aeroplanes have a "straight wing", which may be "constant-chord", or "tapered" so that it decreases in chord towards the tip.
It has been employed in a few examples of combat aircraft, the first production type being the General Dynamics F-111.
Some people consider Man-powered aircraft also rely on ground effect to remain airborne, but this is only because they are so underpowered - the airframe is theoretically capable of flying much higher.
The rotor is driven (directly or indirectly) by an engine and pushes air downwards to create lift.
By tilting the rotor forwards, the downwards flow is tilted backwards, producing thrust for forward flight.
Focke Achgelis Fa 330 are unpowered autogyros, which must be towed by a tether to give them forward speed.
Compound helicopters and compound autogyros have been built, and some forms of gyroplane may be referred to as compound gyroplanes.
On the ground it sat on its tail, and took off and landed vertically like a helicopter.
Some rotorcraft have reaction-powered rotors with gas jets at the tips but most have one or more lift rotors powered from engine-driven shafts.
Balloons drift with the wind, though normally the pilot can control the altitude either by heating the air or by releasing ballast, giving some directional control (since the wind direction changes with altitude).
Kites are tethered to the ground, and rely on wind blowing over them to generate lift.
Gliders gain their initial thrust from some launch mechanism, and then gain energy from gravity and thermal currents.
For a glider to maintain its forward air speed and lift, it must descend in relation to the air (but not necessarily in relation to the ground).
The first practical example was designed and built by the British scientist and pioneer George Cayley who is universally recognised as the first aeronautical engineer.
A propeller comprises a set of small, wing-like aerofoils set around a central hub and aligned in the direction of travel.
Spinning the propeller creates aerodynamic lift, or thrust, in a forward direction.
Some very early attempts were made to make lightweight steam engines capable of powering an aircraft.
From the first powered flight by the horizontally-opposed engine (with the cylinders lined up on two sides of the crankshaft).
Water cooled V engines, as used in automobiles, were common in high speed aircraft, until they were replaced by jet and turbine power.
Piston engines typically operate using avgas or regular gasoline, though some new ones are being designed to operate on diesel or jet fuel.
Turbine engines need not be used as jets (see below), but may be geared to drive a propeller in the form of a turboprop.
Modern helicopters also typically use turbine engines to power the rotor.
A variation on propellers is to use many broad blades to create a fan.
These fans are traditionally surrounded by a ring-shaped fairing or duct, as "ducted fans".
How to tell whether it's a propellor or a fan?
Look at it from the front when stationary: if you can see in between the blades then it is a propellor, while if the blades pretty much block the view it is a fan.
Jet engines provide thrust by taking in air, burning it with fuel, and accelerating the exhaust rearwards so that it ejects at high speed.
The reaction against this acceleration provides the engine thrust.
The major distinction in aircraft usage is between military aviation, which includes all uses of aircraft for military purposes (such as combat, patrolling, search and rescue, reconnaissance, transport, and training), and civil aviation, which includes all uses of aircraft for non-military purposes.
Combat aircraft like fighters or bombers represent only a minority of the category.
Many civil aircraft have been produced in separate models for military use, such as the civil Piper J3 Cub had a military version, the L-4 liaison, observation and trainer aircraft.
In the past, gliders and balloons have also been used as military aircraft; for example, balloons were used for observation during the American Civil War and World War I, and cargo gliders were used during World War II to land troops.
Combat aircraft themselves, though used a handful of times for reconnaissance and Balkan War.
During Tankers were developed after World War II to refuel other aircraft in mid-air, thus increasing their operational range.
By the time of the Vietnam War, helicopters had come into widespread military use, especially for transporting, supplying, and supporting ground troops.
In layman's terms, experimental aircraft are one-off specials, built to explore some aspect of aircraft design and with no other useful purpose.
The Bell X-1 rocket plane, which first broke the sound barrier in level flight, is a famous example.
A model aircraft is a small copy of some larger aircraft design.
Models may be made to fly for fun, for static display, or for serious aerodynamic research (cf Reynolds number).
Within any general category, aircraft are usually listed according to manufacturer and production type.
Aircraft generate considerable amounts of noise pollution and air pollution emissions.
The below are interlanguage links.
Richard David James was born of Redruth, Cornwall.
As a child he experimented on the strings and hammers of the family piano.
According to Benjamin Middleton, James started producing music at the age of 12.
As a teenager he DJed at the Shire Horse in St Ives, with Tom Middleton at the Bowgie Inn in Crantock, and also along the numerous beaches around Cornwall.
From age 16 to 18 James studied the National Diploma in Engineering from 1988 to 1990 in Cornwall College.
He passed the course, although he listened to his mixes on his headphones during the practical lesson.
Aphex Twin's first record was the 12-inch EP "Analogue Bubblebath", the last two tracks of which were made with Tom Middleton.
It was played on the KISS FM playlist, an influential London pirate station, which helped the EP become a success.
These early releases came out on Rephlex Records, Mighty Force of Exeter, and R&S Records of Belgium.
Early in his career, James moved to London to take an Kingston Polytechnic, but at the time admitted to David Toop that his "electronics studies were already slipping away as a career in the techno business took precedence".
After quitting his course, James remained in London and released a number of albums and EPs on Warp Records and other labels under many aliases, including "AFX", "Polygon Window", and "Power-Pill".
A number of Richard's tracks (released under the aliases Blue Calx, The Dice Man, and others) were also included in various compilations during this time.
Local legend has it that James lived on the roundabout in Elephant and Castle, South London during his early years in the capital.
The first Aphex Twin album, "Selected Ambient Works 85-92", was released in 1992 on R&S Records.
John Bush of the All Music Guide described it as a "watershed of ambient music".
Critics also noted that the songs were recorded on cassette and that the sound quality was "relatively poor".
Aphex Twin's early adoption of software synthesizers predated the later popularity of using computers to make music.
In late 2004, rumours of James' return to an mastering and pressing.
Recently, rumors have begun surfacing that James is now recording under one or more secret new aliases, such as The Tuss.
James usually creates his own photography for his releases' artwork.
The BBC Radiophonic workshop influenced Aphex Twin, and he released a compilation of music recorded by the pioneers of that studio, for example Delia Derbyshire , called Music from the BBC Radiophonic Workshop on his own Rephlex Records label.
Many songs include sounds from and references to the ZX Spectrum.
Fans of Aphex Twin made an internet discussion list in August 1993 to talk about Aphex Twin and Warp Records.
It was called the Intelligent Dance Music List.
From then fans from the internet have called Aphex Twin IDM and Drill and bass to describe Richard's novel approach to dance music.
The album consists of acoustic arrangements of some of James' electronic tracks.
The mathcore band The Dillinger Escape Plan has covered "Come to Daddy" on one of their EPs, "Irony is a Dead Scene", that featured Mike Patton as vocalist.
James described himself in the "Guardian" newspaper as follows: "I'm just some irritating, lying, ginger kid from Cornwall who should have been locked up in some youth detention centre.
James owns a 1950s armoured scout car, the The Face magazine in 2001.
Aphex Twin provided all 3 of the tracks, [rhubarb] (SAW II), Xtal (SAW 85-92), and [parallel stripes] (SAW II), in the BBC's digital widescreen test transmission, broadcast on a loop in the UK between November 1998 and early 2002.
A package of tapes containing music from several artists, including Aphex Twin, was sent to the German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen.
Spectrum Competition" Richard claims to have produced sound on a Sinclair ZX81 (a machine with no sound hardware) at the age of 11: "When I was 11, I won 50 pounds in a competition for writing this program that made sound on a ZX81.
By displaying changing patterns of color on the monitor (in the case of the Spectrum, as with many early personal computers, the display monitor was a television), the natural hum from the cathode ray tube was modulated, producing a semblance of melody.
Drum Machine!
During an interview with Future Music, Richard said he liked using Ableton Live but prefers Liveslice for beat editing/stretching.
In an interview with Japan's Snoozer magazine in 2001, James stated that his favorite instruments were his piano, laptop computer, and the Synton Fenix.
In one of his older interviews in the nineties, Richard said he used Pro Tools and "stuff like that", though he is known to have used Cubase around the time of the "Richard D James" album.
Chemist, engineer, innovator, armaments manufacturer and the inventor of dynamite.
Nobel was the third son of Emil and several other workers in 1864.
The foundations of the Nobel Prize were laid in 1895 when Alfred Nobel wrote his last will, leaving much of his wealth for its establishment.
Since 1901, the prize has honored men and women for outstanding achievements in physics, chemistry, medicine, literature, and for work in peace.
In 1876 Bertha von Suttner became Alfred Nobel's secretary but after only a brief stay, left and married Baron Arthur Gundaccar von Suttner.
Though her personal contact with Alfred Nobel had been brief, she corresponded with him until his death in 1896, and it is believed that she was a major influence in his decision to include a peace prize among those prizes provided in his will, which she won in 1905.
The entire stock except for three copies was destroyed immediately after his death, being regarded as scandalous and blasphemous.
The first surviving edition (bilingual Swedish-Esperanto) was published in Sweden in 2003.
The play has been translated to Slovenian via the Esperanto version.
Alfred Nobel is buried in Norra begravningsplatsen in Stockholm.
Nobel found that when kieselguhr (diatomaceous earth) it became safer and more convenient to handle, and this mixture he patented in 1867 as dynamite.
Nobel demonstrated his explosive for the first time that year, at a quarry in Redhill, Surrey, England.
Nobel later on combined nitroglycerin with another explosive, blasting gelatin as it was called, was patented in 1876, and was followed by a host of similar combinations, modified by the addition of potassium nitrate and various other substances.
The erroneous publication in 1888 of a premature obituary of Nobel by a French newspaper, condemning him for his invention of dynamite, is said to have brought about his decision to leave a better legacy after his death.
The first three of these prizes are awarded for eminence in fraternity, in the suppression or reduction of standing armies, or in the establishment or furtherance of peace congresses.
There was also quite a lot of room for interpretation by the bodies he had named for deciding on the physical sciences and chemistry prizes, given that he had not consulted them before making the will.
In his one-page testament, he stipulated that the money go to discoveries or inventions in the physical sciences and to discoveries or improvements in chemistry.
He had opened the door to technological awards, but had not left instructions on how to deal with the distinction between science and technology.
Since the deciding bodies he had chosen were more concerned with the former, it is not surprising that the prizes went to scientists and not to engineers, technicians or other inventors.
In a sense, the technological prizes announced recently by the World Technology Network (not funded by the Nobel foundation) indirectly fill this gap.
In 2001, his great-grandnephew, Peter, asked the Bank of Sweden to differentiate its award to economists given "in Alfred Nobel's memory" from the five other awards.
This has caused much controversy whether the prize for Economics is actually a "Nobel Prize" (see Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel).
Alexander Graham Bell has been variously claimed as an American, Canadian and Scot.
The wording in the lead paragraph was carefully crafted after input from many editors in order to accommodate the many diverse claims.
It is recognized that in the last years of his life, Bell had American citizenship although he predominately lived in Canada at a summer residence.
Please discuss any potentially divisive submissions prior to editing this section.
A newer edit is presently being considered that will focus of his life's work and provide details on his nationality and citizenship in later sections.
His father, grandfather and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech, and both his mother and wife were deaf, profoundly influencing Bell's life's work.
His research on hearing and speech further led him to experiment with hearing devices that eventually culminated in Bell being awarded the first U.S. patent for the invention of the telephone in 1876.
Many other inventions marked Bell's later life including groundbreaking work in hydrofoils and aeronautics.
In 1888, Alexander Graham Bell was one of the founding members of the National Geographic Society.
In reflection, Bell considered his most famous invention an intrusion on his real work as a scientist and refused to have a telephone in his study.
Alexander Bell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland on 3 March 1847.
Throughout his early life, Bell was a British subject.
The family home was at 16 South Charlotte Street, Edinburgh and has a commemorative marker at the doorstep, marking this as Alexander Graham Bell's birthplace.
He had two brothers: Melville James Bell (1845-1870) and Edward Charles Bell (1848-1867).
Both of his brothers died of tuberculosis, Edward in 1867 and Melville in 1870.
His father was Professor Alexander Melville Bell, and his mother was Eliza Grace (nee Symonds).
As a child, young Aleck Bell displayed a natural curiosity about his world, resulting in gathering mill, the scene of many forays.
From his early years, Bell showed a sensitive nature and a talent for art, poetry and music that was encouraged by his mother.
With no formal training, he mastered the piano and became the family's pianist.
Despite being normally quiet and introspective, he revelled in mimicry and "voice tricks" akin to ventriloquism that constantly entertained family guests.
Bell was also deeply affected by his mother's gradual deafness (she began to lose her hearing when he was 12) and learned a manual finger language so he could sit at her side and tap out silently the conversations swirling around the family parlour.
He also developed a technique of speaking in clear, modulated tones directly into his mother's forehead wherein she would hear him with reasonable clarity.
Bell's preoccupation with his mother's deafness led him to study acoustics.
His family was associated with the teaching of elocution: his grandfather, Alexander Bell, in London, his uncle in Dublin, and his father, in Edinburgh, were all elocutionists.
His father published a variety of works on the subject, several of which are still well known, especially his "The Standard Elocutionist" (1860) and treatise on "Visible Speech", which appeared in Edinburgh in 1868.
In this treatise, he explains his methods of how to instruct deaf-mutes (as they were then known) to articulate words and read other people's lip movements to decipher meaning.
Aleck's father taught him and his brothers not only to write Visible Speech but also to identify any symbol and its accompanying sound.
Aleck became so proficient that he became part of his father's public demonstrations and astounded audiences with his abilities in deciphering Latin, Gaelic and even Sanskrit symbols.
Although as a young child, like his brothers, Bell received his early schooling at home from his father, at an early age, he was enrolled at the Elgin, Moray, Scotland.
In 1865, when the Bell family moved to Bath, Somerset, England, his brother's condition deteriorated.
Edward would never recover.
Upon his brother's passing, Bell returned home in 1867.
With aspirations to obtain a degree at the University of London, Bell considered his next years as preparation for the degree examinations, devoting his spare time at his family's residence to studying.
In 1870, at age 23, Bell, his brother's widow, Caroline (Margaret Ottaway), and his parents travelled on the "SS Nestorian" to Canada.
After landing at Quebec City, the Bells boarded a train to Grand River.
At the homestead, Bell set up his own workshop in the converted Six Nations Reserve across the river at Onondaga, he learned the Mohawk language and translated its unwritten vocabulary into Visible Speech symbols.
For his work, Bell was awarded the title of honorary chief and participated in a ceremony where he donned a Mohawk headdress and danced traditional dances.
After setting up his workshop, Bell continued experiments based on Helmholtz's work with electricity and sound.
He designed a piano which, by means of electricity, could transmit its music at a distance.
Once the family was settled in, both Bell and his father made plans to establish a teaching practice and in 1871, he accompanied his father to Montreal, where Melville was offered a position to teach his System of Visible Speech.
Subsequently, his father was invited by Sarah Fuller, principal of the American Asylum for Deaf-mutes in Hartford and the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton.
Bell had a specially made table where he could place his notes and equipment inside a locking cover.
Worse still, his health deteriorated as he suffered severe headaches.
Returning to Boston in fall 1873, Bell made a fateful decision to concentrate on his experiments in sound.
Each pupil would serve to play an important role in the next developments.
Bell thought it might be possible to generate undulating electrical currents that corresponded to sound waves.
Bell also thought that multiple metal reeds tuned to different frequencies like a harp would be able to convert the undulatory currents back into sound.
But he had no working model to demonstrate the feasibility of these ideas.
In 1874, telegraph message traffic was rapidly expanding and in the words of telegraph messages on each telegraph line to avoid the great cost of constructing new lines.
When Bell mentioned to Gardiner Hubbard and Thomas Sanders that he was working on a method of sending multiple tones on a telegraph wire using a multi-reed device, the two wealthy patrons began to financially support Bell's experiments.
Patent matters would be handled by Hubbard's patent attorney Anthony Pollok.
In March 1875, Bell and Pollok visited the famous scientist Joseph Henry, who was then director of the Smithsonian Institution, and asked Henry's advice on the electrical multi-reed apparatus that Bell hoped would transmit the human voice by telegraph.
Henry replied that Bell had "the germ of a great invention".
With financial support from Sanders and Hubbard, Bell was able to hire Thomas Watson as his assistant and Bell and Watson experimented with acoustic telegraphy.
On 2 June 1875, Watson accidentally plucked one of the reeds and Bell at the receiving end of the wire, heard the overtones of the reed, overtones that would be necessary for transmitting speech.
That demonstrated to Bell that only one reed or armature was needed, not multiple reeds.
Meanwhile, Elisha Gray was also experimenting with acoustic telegraphy and thought of a way to transmit speech using a water transmitter.
On caveat with the U.S. patent office for a telephone design that used a water transmitter.
That same morning, Bell's lawyer filed an application with the patent office for the telephone.
There is a debate about who arrived first and Gray later challenged the primacy of Bell's patent.
Three days after his patent was issued, Bell experimented with a water transmitter, using an acid-water mixture.
Vibration of the diaphragm caused a needle to vibrate in the water which varied the electrical resistance in the circuit.
Continuing his experiments in Brantford, Bell brought a working model of his telephone home.
On Mount Pleasant five miles (eight km) away from Brantford, Alexander sent a tentative telegram indicating he was ready.
With curious onlookers packed into the office as witnesses, faint voices were heard replying.
The following night, he amazed his family and guests when a message was received at the Bell home from Brantford, four miles (six km) distant along an improvised wire strung up along telegraph lines, fences and ending up being laid through a tunnel.
This time guests at the household distinctly heard people in Brantford reading and singing.
These first long-distance transmissions clearly proved that the telephone could work over long distances.
Bell and his partners, Hubbard and Sanders, offered to sell the patent outright to Western Union for $100,000.
The president of Western Union balked, countering that the telephone was nothing but a toy.
Two years later, he told colleagues that if he could get the patent for $25 million he would consider it a bargain.
By then the Bell company no longer wanted to sell the patent.
Bell's investors would become millionaires while he fared well from residuals and at one point, had assets nearly reaching one million dollars.
Bell began a series of public demonstrations and lectures in order to introduce the new invention to the scientific community as well as the general public.
His demonstration of an early machine at the 1876 Centenary Exhibition in Philadelphia,the following day, made the telephone the featured headline worldwide.
This section has been the source of much contention.
The current revision attempts to present a balanced and neutral view of both sides of the issue.
As is sometimes common in scientific discoveries, simultaneous developments can occur, as evidenced by a number of inventors who were at work on the telephone.
Although many of these devices had common features that were incorporated in Bell's machine, none were successful in establishing priority over the original Bell patent.
The Bell company lawyers successfully fought off a myriad of lawsuits generated initially around the challenges by Elisha Gray and Amos Dolbear.
On 13 January 1887, the Government of the United States moved to annul the patent issued to Bell on the grounds of fraud and misrepresentation.
The prosecuting attorney was the Hon.
Over a period of 18 years, the Bell Telephone Company faced over 600 litigations from inventors claiming to have invented the telephone, never once losing a case.
One such example was Italian inventor Antonio Meucci who claimed in 1834 to have created the first working model of a telephone in Italy.
In 1876, Meucci took Bell to court in order to establish his priority.
Meucci lost his case due to lack of material evidence of his inventions.
Meucci's work, like many other inventors of the period, was based around earlier acoustic principles.
The value of the Bell patent was acknowledged throughout the world, and when Bell had delayed the German patent application, the electrical firm of Siemens & Halske (S&H) managed to set up a rival manufacturer of Bell telephones under their own patent.
A series of agreements in other countries eventually consolidated a global telephone operation.
The strain on Bell by his constant appearances in court necessitated by the legal battles, eventually resulted in his resignation from the company.
In 1882, Bell became a Beinn Bhreagh.
Until the end of his life Bell and his family would alternate between the two homes, but "Beinn Bhreagh" would, over the next 30 years, become more than a summer home as Bell became so absorbed in his experiments that annual stays lengthened.
Although Alexander Graham Bell is most often associated with the invention of the telephone, his interests were extremely varied.
The range of Bell's inventive genius is represented only in part by the 18 patents granted in his name alone and the 12 he shared with his collaborators.
Bell's inventions spanned a wide range of interests and included a metal jacket to assist in breathing, the audiometer to detect minor hearing problems, a device to locate icebergs, investigations on how to separate salt from seawater, and work on finding alternative fuels.
Bell worked extensively in medical research and invented techniques for teaching speech to the deaf.
During his Volta Laboratory period, Bell and his associates considered impressing a magnetic field on a record as a means of reproducing sound.
Although the trio briefly experimented with the concept, they were unable to develop a workable prototype.
They abandoned the idea, never realizing they had glimpsed a basic principle which would one day find its application in the magnetic media.
Bell's own home used a primitive form of solar panels to heat houses.
During his world tour of 1910&ndash;1911, Bell and Baldwin met with Forlanini in France.
In 1891, Bell began experiments to develop motor-powered heavier-than-air aircraft.
In 1898, Bell experimented with tetrahedral box kites and wings constructed of multiple compound tetrahedral kites covered in silk.
The AEA's work progressed to heavier-than-air machines, applying their knowledge of kites to gliders.
Moving to Hammondsport, the group then designed and built the "Red Wing", framed in bamboo and covered in red silk and powered by a small air-cooled engine.
On 12 March 1908, the biplane lifted off on the first public flight in North America.
The innovations that were incorporated into this design included a cockpit enclosure and tail rudder (later variations on the original design would add ailerons as a means of control).
One of the AEA project's inventions, the aileron, is a standard component of aircraft today.
Their final aircraft design, the "Silver Dart" embodied all of the advancements found in the earlier machines.
Eugenics is still considered contentious.
Along with many very prominent thinkers and scientists of the time, Bell was connected with the National Academy of Sciences on 13 November 1883 he noted that congenitally deaf parents were more likely to produce deaf children and tentatively suggested that couples where both parties were deaf should not marry.
However, it was his hobby of livestock breeding which led to his appointment to biologist David Starr Jordan's Committee on Eugenics, under the auspices of the American Breeders Association.
The committee unequivocally extended the principle to man.
From 1912 until 1918 he was the chairman of the board of scientific advisers to the Eugenics Record Office associated with Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in New York, and regularly attended meetings.
In 1921, he was the honorary president of the Second International Congress of Eugenics held under the auspices of the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
Organisations such as these advocated passing laws (with success in some states) that established the compulsory sterilization of people deemed to be, as Bell called them, a "defective variety of the human race".
By the late 1930s, about half the states in the U.S. had eugenics laws, and the California laws were used as a model for eugenics laws in Nazi Germany.
His ideas about people he considered defective centered on the deaf.
Although he supported what some consider harsh and inhumane policies today, he was not unkind to deaf individuals who supported his theories of oralism.
He was a personal and longtime friend of Helen Keller, and his wife Mabel was deaf (though none of their children were).
Bell died of pernicious anemia on 2 August 1922, at his private estate, Beinn Bhreagh, Nova Scotia, at age 75.
Alexander Graham Bell was buried atop Beinn Bhreagh mountain overlooking Bras d'Or Lake.
He was survived by his wife and his two daughters, Elisa May and Marion.
The bel (B) is a unit of measurement invented by Bell Labs and named after Bell.
The bel was too large for everyday use, so the decibel (dB), equal to 0.1 B, became more commonly used as a unit for measuring sound intensity.
In the early 1970s, the UK rock group The Sweet recorded a tribute to Bell and the telephone, suitably titled "Alexander Graham Bell".
The song gives a fictional account of the invention, in which Bell devises the telephone so he can talk to his girlfriend who lives on the other side of the United States.
The song reached the top 40 in the UK and went on to sell over one million recordings worldwide.
Eric Walters' "The Hydrofoil Mystery" (1999) sets a novel in Alexander Graham Bell's workshops, casting the hydrofoil as a new weapon of war being readied for use against German U-boats in the First World War.
Bell was honoured on the television programs the the 100 Greatest Americans (2005).
The nominees and rankings for these programs were determined by popular vote.
Bell was the only person to be on more than one of the programs.
Another musical tribute to Bell, "Alexander Graham Bell" (2006) was written by the British songwriter and guitarist Richard Thompson.
The chorus reminds the listener that "of course there was the telephone, he'd be famous for that alone, but there's 50 other things as well from Alexander Graham Bell".
One of the residence halls at Rochester Institute of Technology adjacent to the National Technical Institute for the Deaf building is Alexander Graham Bell Hall.
There is a public grammar (K-8) school on the north side of Chicago named Alexander Graham Bell School.
This school educates deaf, blind, mentally disabled, gifted and standard students.
The song became the official state anthem in 1926.
College when he learned that the university intended to play the anthem during his visit.
Different tempos may be used, however, and the verse and chorus are occasionally played.
The anthem consists only of the chorus of the song.
The original has three verses, set to a slightly different tune.
Sons of the Gael!
Men of the Pale!
Because of its strategic location at the intersection of Asia and Europe, Anatolia has been the center of several civilizations since prehistoric times.
More than 2500 years ago, the area was home for Armenians.
The Anatolian peninsula is bounded by the Black Sea to the north, the Mediterranean Sea to the south, the Aegean Sea (itself an arm of the Mediterranean) to the west, and the bulk of the Asian mainland to the east.
Anatolia's terrain is structurally complex.
The Black Sea region has a steep, rocky coast with rivers that cascade through the gorges of the coastal ranges.
The North Anatolian mountains are an interrupted chain of folded highlands that generally parallel the Black Sea coast.
The narrow coastal plains of the Mediterranean region, separated from the Anatolian plateau by the Taurus Mountains, which reach elevations of 2,000 to 2,750 metres (6600 to 9000 ft), are cultivated intensively.
Fertile soils and a warm climate make the Mediterranean coast ideal for growing citrus fruits, grapes, figs, bananas, various vegetables, barley, wheat, and, in irrigated areas, rice and cotton.
Stretching inland from the Aegean coastal plain, Central Anatolia occupies the area between the two zones of the folded mountains, extending east to the point where the two ranges converge.
The plateau-like, semiarid highlands of Anatolia are considered the heartland of the country.
The region varies in elevation from 600 to 1,200 metres (2000 to 4000 ft) from west to east.
Eastern Anatolia (otherwise called Armenian Highland), where the Pontus and Taurus mountain ranges converge, is rugged country with higher elevations, a more severe climate, and greater precipitation than are found on the Anatolian Plateau.
Southeast Anatolia lies south of the Anti-Taurus Mountains.
It is a region of rolling hills and a broad plateau surface that extends into Syria.
Elevations decrease gradually, from about 800 metres (2600 ft) in the north to about 500 metres (1600 ft) in the south.
Traditionally, inauguration of major new irrigation projects in the 1980s has led to greater agricultural diversity and development.
Let this section focus on the Anatolian Plateau --> Mountains close to the coast prevent Mediterranean influences from extending inland, giving the interior of Turkey a continental climate with distinct seasons.
The Anatolian Plateau is much more subject to extremes than are the coastal areas.
Winters on the plateau are especially severe.
Anatolia's diverse topography and climate has encouraged a similar diversity of plant and animal communities.
The mountains and coastal plain of northern Anatolia, with its humid and mild climate, is home to coniferous forests.
The central and eastern plateau, with its drier continental climate, is home to deciduous forests and forest steppes.
Western and southern Anatolia, which have a Mediterranean climate, are home to Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and shrub ecoregions.
Apple employs over 20,000 permanent and temporary workers worldwide and had worldwide annual sales in its billion.
The company introduced the Commodore Amiga, and Atari ST, appearing on the market within two years of the introduction of the Macintosh.
In 1991, Apple introduced the PowerBook line of portable computers.
The 1990s also saw Apple's market share fall as competition from Microsoft Windows and the comparatively inexpensive IBM PC compatible computers that would eventually dominate the market.
In the 2000s, Apple expanded its focus on software to include professional and prosumer video, music, and photo production solutions, with a view to promoting their products as a "digital hub".
It also introduced the iPod, the most popular digital music player in the world.
While early models used ordinary cassette tapes as storage devices, this was quickly superseded by the introduction of a 5&nbsp;1/4&nbsp;inch floppy disk drive and interface, the Disk II.
Another key to business for Apple was software.
Apple II, and the corporate market attracted many more software and hardware developers to the machine, as well as giving home users an additional reason to buy one&mdash;compatibility with the office.
Apple exaggerated its sales figures, and Apple was a distant third place until VisiCalc came along.
Apple II because Commodore and Tandy computers were tied up in VisiCalc's software development office due to their popularity.
Apple was thus pure happenstance, not a technical decision.
Even after VisiCalc, Apple II did not surpass the Tandy TRS-80, whose sales were helped by the large number of Radio Shack stores.
However, VisiCalc did put Apple ahead of Commodore's PET, at least in the US.
By the end of the 1970s, Jobs and his partners had a staff of computer designers and a production line.
The Apple II was succeeded by the Apple III in May 1980 as the company struggled to compete against IBM and Microsoft in the lucrative business and corporate computing market.
The designers of the Apple III were forced to comply with Jobs' request to omit the cooling fan, and this ultimately resulted in thousands of recalled units due to overheating.
An updated version, the Apple III+, was introduced in 1983, but it was also a failure due to bad press and wary buyers.
Apple's sustained growth during the early 1980s was partly due to its leadership in the education sector, attributed to their adaptation of the programming language LOGO, used in many schools with the Apple II.
The drive into education was accentuated in California with the donation of one Apple II and one Apple LOGO software package to each public school in the state.
The deal concluded between Steve Jobs and Jim Baroux of LCSI, and having required the support of Sacramento, established a strong and pervasive presence for Apple in all schools throughout California.
The initial conquest of education environments was critical to Apple's acceptance in the home where the earliest purchases of computers by parents was in support of children's continued learning experience.
In 1984, drawing upon its experience with the Lisa, Apple next launched the Macintosh.
Having learned several painful lessons after introducing the bulky System 7, a major upgrade to the operating system which added color to the interface, and introduced a number of new networking capabilities.
It would remain the architectural basis for Mac OS until 2001.
The success of the PowerBook and several other Apple products during this period led to increasing revenue.
For some time, it appeared that Apple could do no wrong, introducing fresh new products and generating increasing profits in the process.
However, the continuing development of Microsoft Windows had given birth to an interface that was competitive with Apple's.
Apple, relying on high profit margins to maintain their massive R&D budget, never developed a clear response.
During this time, Apple branched out into consumer electronics.
Though it failed commercially, it defined and launched a new category of computing and was a forerunner of devices such as Palm Pilot, PocketPC, and eventually the iPhone.
In 1994 Apple allied with long-time competitor IBM and CPU maker Motorola in the so-called AIM alliance.
This was a bid to create a new computing platform (the PowerPC Reference Platform or PReP), which would use IBM and Motorola hardware coupled with Apple's software.
The AIM alliance hoped that PReP's performance and Apple's software would leave the PC far behind, thus countering Microsoft, which had become Apple's chief competitor.
That year, Apple introduced the Power Macintosh using IBM's PowerPC processor.
This processor utilized a RISC architecture, which differed substantially from the Motorola 68k series that had been used by all previous Macs.
Throughout the mid to late 1990s, Apple tried to improve its operating system's multitasking and memory management.
After multiple failed attempts to improve the existing Mac OS, first with the Gershwin, the company chose to purchase NeXT and its NeXTSTEP operating system, bringing Steve Jobs back to Apple in the process.
On July 9 1997, Gil Amelio was ousted as CEO of Apple by the board of directors after overseeing a 3-year record-low stock price and crippling financial losses.
Jobs stepped in as the interim CEO and began a restructuring of the company's product line.
On Apple Store, an online retail store based upon the WebObjects application server the company had acquired in its purchase of NeXT.
The new direct sales outlet was also tied to a new build-to-order manufacturing strategy and announced at the same time as new machines using the PowerPC processor.
On Bondi Blue, but later many other colors.
The iMac sold close to 800,000 units in its first five months and helped return the company to sustained profitability for the first time since 1993.
On Apple Retail Stores in Virginia and California, and has since continued to open more stores in the United States and other countries.
Later the same year, Apple introduced its first iPod portable digital audio player.
The product has proven phenomenally successful; over 100 million units have been sold in the six years since its introduction.
As for the Macintosh, Apple's design team progressively abandoned the flashy colors of the iMac G3 era in favor of white polycarbonate for consumer lines such as the iMac and iBook, as well as the educational eMac, and metal enclosures for the professional lines.
This began with the 2001 release of the titanium PowerBook and was followed by the 2001 white iBook, the 2002 flat-panel iMac, the 2003 Power Mac G5, and the 2004 Apple Cinema Displays.
In the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) keynote address on June 6 2005, Steve Jobs announced that Apple would begin producing Intel-based Mac computers beginning in 2006.
Apple introduced the Apple Macintosh family in 1984 and today makes consumer, professional, and educational computers.
The rack mount offerings include the Xserve, a dual core, dual processor 1U server, and the Xserve RAID for large-scale storage options.
Apple sells a variety of computer accessories for Mac computers including the Mighty Mouse, the Apple Wireless Keyboard computer keyboard, and the Apple USB Modem.
At the navigation.
Additionally at the conference, Jobs demonstrated the Apple TV, (previously known as the iTV), a set-top video device intended to bridge the sale of content from iTunes with high-definition televisions.
The device links up to a user's TV and syncs, either via WiFi or a wired network, with one computer's iTunes library and streams from an additional four.
The Apple TV incorporates a 40&nbsp;GB hard drive for storage, includes outputs for HDMI and component video, and plays video at a maximum resolution of 720p.
It was later updated to include a 160&nbsp;GB drive for even more space for media.
A study in January 2006 by the United States Environmental Protection Agency found that Apple's hardware compares favorably with that of its major competitors on environmental friendliness.
On mercury, whereas LEDs do not.
Former environmentalist Al Gore is a member of Apple's board of directors.
Apple develops its own Safari web browser are available as free downloads for both Mac OS X and Windows.
Apple also offers a range of professional software titles.
Their range of server software includes the operating system Shake, an advanced effects composition program.
This trend was largely reversed in the late 1990s beginning with Apple's adoption of the Power Macs.
Apple has since adopted USB, AGP, HyperTransport, Wi-Fi, and other industry standards in its computers and was in some cases a leader in the adoption of such standards.
Apple-originated standard which has seen widespread industry adoption after it was standardized as IEEE 1394.
However, the iPod remains a mostly closed and vertically integrated platform.
Although Apple provides documented interfaces for hardware accessories, developers have no supported way to add features to the software (such as decoding of additional formats).
Although the iPod supports the mainstream DRM system to other online music vendors.
The company added Windows PC support with their second generation iPod series.
Ever since the first Apple store opened, Apple has wanted third parties to sell their products and software inside their stores.
This allows, for instance, Nikon and Canon to sell their Mac-compatible digital cameras and camcorders inside the store.
Adobe, the largest Apple software partner, also sells its Mac-compatible software, as does Microsoft, who sells Microsoft Office for the Mac.
A notable exception are books published by Apple Stores in 2005 because Steve Jobs disagreed with their editorial policy.
Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with its award-winning computers, OS X operating system and iLife and professional applications.
In 2006, Apple announced its intention to build a second campus on 50 acres assembled from various contiguous plots.
The new campus, also in Cupertino, will be about one mile east of the current campus.
Since the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984 with the criticized for the content of more recent campaigns.
Jobs and Wayne, depicts Sir Isaac Newton sitting under an apple tree.
While it is generally accepted to have been in reference to Isaac Newton, a curious urban legend exists that the bitten apple is a homage to the mathematician Alan Turing, who committed suicide by eating an apple he had laced with cyanide.
Turing is regarded as one of the fathers of the computer.
In 1999, Apple began enforcing the use of a strictly stickers in nearly all Macintosh and iPod packages through the years.
Apple's first slogan, "Byte into an Apple", was coined in the late 1970s.
In a more recent previously unrelated lawsuit, Apple entered into a class action settlement, upheld on December 20 2005 following an appeal, regarding the battery life of iPod music players sold prior to May 2004.
Eligible members of the class are entitled to extended warranties, store credit, cash compensation, or battery replacement.
Apple and Cisco had been in talks for a while about use of the name, though Apple had been denied the use of the name on several occasions leading up through January 9.
Cisco alleged that Apple created a front company to attempt to acquire the name through other means, but failed also.
On February 22 2007 Cisco and Apple announced an agreement under which both companies would be allowed to use the iPhone name worldwide.
In July 2007, Colorado-based photographer Louis Psihoyos filed suit against Apple for allegedly ripping his "wall of videos" imagery to advertise for Apple TV.
According to Psihoyos, Apple had been negotiating with Psihoyos for rights to the imagery, but backed out and promptly used the imagery anyway.
According to surveys by User Groups in most major and many minor centers of population where Mac computers are available.
Mac users meet at the European Apple Expo and the San Francisco Macworld Conference & Expo trade shows where Apple introduces new products each year to the industry and public.
Mac developers in turn gather at the annual Apple Worldwide Developers Conference.
Apple has received criticism for not notifying users of system vulnerabilities until a fix is released, and has been accused of pressuring journalists to release their sources, with regards to leaked information about new Apple products.
Apple also has received criticism for its iPhone and iPod integration with iTunes for not facilitating creation of software to run and maintain those devices using different applications tools besides iTunes.
Apple also has been investigated and criticized for possible monopolistic and antitrust allegations between the two companies.
Present day Aberdeenshire does not include Aberdeen City which is a Council Area in its own right.
However, Aberdeenshire Council has its headquarters at Woodhill House, in Aberdeen; the only Scottish council whose headquarters are based outwith its area's border.
Aberdeenshire borders Angus and Perth and Kinross to the south, and Highland and Moray to the west.
The present council area is named after the historic Gordon and Kincardine and Deeside.
The region had also two other districts; Moray and the City of Aberdeen.
In 1996, under the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act 1994, the Banff and Buchan district, the Gordon district and the Kincardine and Deeside district were merged to form the Aberdeenshire council area, and the other two districts became autonomous council areas.
Aberdeenshire Council was established in April 1996, following the abolition of the Scottish Regions.
The council has 68 councillors.
The council area has a population of 226,871, representing 4.5% of Scotland's total, and a 20% increase since 1981, 50% since 1971.
The population has a higher proportion of younger age groups than the rest of Scotland, reflecting employment-driven in-migration in recent decades.
There are numerous rivers and burns in Aberdeenshire, including haar, or coastal fog.
Since the early 1990s, Aztlan Underground has played Rapcore.
Indigenous drums, flutes, and rattles are commonplace in its musical compositions.
This unique sound is the backdrop for the band's message of dignity for indigenous people, all of humanity, and Earth.
Aztlan Underground has been cultivating a grass roots audience across the country, which has become a large and loyal underground following.
Their music includes spoken word pieces and elements of punk, hip hop, rock, funk, jazz, and indigenous music, among others.
The band has been mentioned or featured in various newspapers and magazines: the Vancouver Sun, Northshore News (Vancouver, Canada newspaper), New Times (Los Angeles weekly entertainment newspaper), BLU Magazine (underground hip hop magazine), BAM Magazine (Southern California), La Banda Elastica Magazine, and the Los Angeles Times Calendar section.
It is also the subject of a chapter in "It's Not About A Salary", by Brian Cross.
They also opened for Rage Against the Machine in Mexico City.
The band is currently in the studio completing their third album as of June 2006.
The new album is due in early 2008.
Wouldn't this entry benefit from such a discussion?
There's only mention of Mesoamerican writing (which isn't explained) but it seems that very few cultures in North America, southern Africa or Australia produced indigenous alphabets.
Which were those that did?
Sequoia invented the Cherokee syllabary after seeing the European advantage, but I cannot find any similar references.
There are two sentences; neither of them is ambiguous or weasly, this is not my problem.
My problem is that they are original research, and as such not allowed in Wikipedia.
Is it only my computer or does the entire page just say "name=Kitty the Hedgehog"?
I was just wondering, why is the English alphabet in the order that its in?
I can't really see any reason for why B follows A, D follows C, etc.
You may get some insight in this by reading articles of the individual letters.
None of the languages you mention uses an alphabet.
It is pseudo-science aimed at falsely establishing Judaism as (a) an antecedent, (b) a monotheistic religion and (c) the birthplace of monotheism.
I mention this because increasingly I see the same conspiracy to falsify history all over the place.
With regard to monotheism, Judaism has 72,000 lesser gods known as 'angels'.
Lastly, of course, monotheism is actually the worship of Amon - the 'One God' - in Greek AMON O THEOS.
Not forgetting, of course, that Ptah of Memphis is credited as the creator of *all* the other gods as well as the Universe.
Moreover, without Judaism's bastard child, Christianity, mankind would have been in space in 500AD.
If I were a religious person I might consider it behooves me to shut up, not to say bury my head in shame, in the face of such facts.
I mean it seems like if you really believe in the traditional authorship and rough timeline of the scriptures being written down, this would put the earliest books either AT or even a smidge BEFORE the alphabet itself was even invented.
With regard to the above, unsigned comment, the Torah was allegedly written by a Babylonian called Ezra no earlier than about 500BC although linguistic analysis has found evidence of three principle redactors.
There is no evidence whatsoever to indicate that either it or its worshippers existed any earlier than that, except that King Cyrus wanted them out of Babylon for reasons which probably we will never know.
The earliest *extant* versions are from around 800AD, only decades older than the first of the extant Anglo-Saxon Chronicles.
The article is missing the spellings of English letter names.
Looking for them is what brought me to the article.
Although I know the spellings of all the names of the letters of the Greek alphabet, of the English alphabet I know only how to spell 'eff', 'aitch', 'ell' and 'zed' ('zee' or some such to Americans).
The fact that there *are* spellings for the names of some letters implies that there must be correct spellings for all the others too.
Shouldn't this statement be corrected to reflect the fact that it is "orthographic fossilization" "in conjunction with" euphonic combination that can lead to incongruency between the spoken and the written word?
Because in Sanskrit - the very language from which the term 'sandhi' comes - the process of euphonic combination does not lead to such incongruency.
The Information given below was deleted without comments.
Could I have some one discuss the suitability or non suitability of the following please.
It is probable that the two (alphabet and phoneme) got mixed up in its passage around the world.
The alternative definition used around the world which largely accepting phoneme as alphabet is not probably scientific, but random.
It is probable that English uses a mixture of two opposing definitions in its use, probably caused by accommodating the Latin script.
However, the deleted passage is nearly nonsensical.
The Tamil language itself doesn't have many phonemes, and the Tamil alphabet doesn't indicate as many sounds as, say, Devanagari.
Thanks for the comments Kwamikagami.
There is a need to understand what an alphabet is.
Some define it as alphabet soup because there is no siceintific oriented definition in that approach.
Now concentrate on the definition of alphabet only.
Alphabet = name for physical+soul parts used in speech.
An alphabet is defined as the name for placess of articulation.
The number is near definitive.
It is 18 consonants and 5++ vowels.
These "are not" phonemes, so alphabet does not represent phoneme, but the body parts in the human organ and the soul.
Only Tamil in Indian language defines the above, but the following may be implicit in all languages.
Consonant means physical (human) entity = mey.
Alphabet, the original definition.
The events of March 12, 1938, marked the culmination of historical cross-national pressures to unify the German populations of Austria and Germany under one nation.
However, the 1938 Anschluss, regardless of its popularity, was enacted by Germany.
Earlier, Nazi Germany had provided support for the Austrian National Socialist Party (Austrian Nazi Party) in its bid to seize power from Austria's Austrofascist leadership.
Fully devoted to remaining independent but amidst growing pressures, the chancellor of Austria, Kurt Schuschnigg, tried to hold a plebiscite.
Although he expected Austria to vote in favour of maintaining autonomy, a well-planned Allies were, on paper, committed to upholding the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, which specifically prohibited the union of Austria and Germany.
Nevertheless, the Anschluss was among the first major steps in invasion of Poland, prompting World War II.
Austria ceased to exist as a fully independent nation until late 1945.
A Provisional Austrian Government was set up on Allies in the following months but it was not until 1955 that Austria regained full sovereignty.
The idea of grouping all Germans into one state had been the subject of inconclusive debate since the end of the UK feared the power of a larger Germany, and had already begun to disempower the current one.
Also Austrian particularism, especially among the nobility, played a huge role, as Austria was Roman Catholic, while Germany was dominated, especially in government, more by Protestants.
In the early 1930s, popular support for union with Germany remained overwhelming, and the Austrian government looked to a possible customs union with Germany in 1931.
In early 1938, Hitler had consolidated his power in Germany and was ready to reach out to fulfill his long-planned expansion.
After a lengthy period of pressure by Germany, Hitler met Schuschnigg on portfolio.
Before the February meeting, Schuschnigg was already under considerable pressure from Germany.
This may be seen in the demand to remove the chief of staff of the Austrian Army, Alfred Jansa, from his position in January 1938.
Jansa and his staff had developed a scenario for Austria's defense against a German attack, a situation Hitler wanted to avoid at all costs.
Schuschnigg subsequently complied with the demand.
During the following weeks, Schuschnigg realized that his newly appointed ministers were working to take over his authority.
Schuschnigg tried to gather support throughout Austria and inflame patriotism among the people.
For the first time since 12 February 1934 (the time of the Austrian Civil War), socialists and communists could legally appear in public again.
The communists announced their unconditional support for the Austrian government, understandable in light of Nazi pressure on Austria.
The socialists demanded further concessions from Schuschnigg before they were willing to side with him.
On 9 March, as a last resort to preserve Austria's independence, Schuschnigg scheduled a plebiscite on the independence of Austria for 13 March.
To secure a large majority in the referendum, Schuschnigg set the minimum voting age at 24 in order to exclude younger voters who largely sympathized with Nazi ideology.
Holding a referendum was a highly risky gamble for Schuschnigg, and, on the next day, it became apparent that Hitler would not simply stand by while Austria declared its independence by public vote.
Hitler declared that the plebiscite would be subject to major fraud and that Germany would not accept it.
In addition, the German Ministry of Propaganda issued press reports that riots had broken out in Austria and that large parts of the Austrian population were calling for German troops to restore order.
Schuschnigg immediately responded publicly that reports of riots were false.
Hitler sent an Austrian National Socialists or face an invasion.
The ultimatum was set to expire at noon, but was extended by two hours.
Schuschnigg desperately sought support for Austrian independence in the hours following the ultimatum, but, realizing that neither Seyss-Inquart Chancellor and asked other Austrian politicians such as Michael Skubl and Sigismund Schilhawsky to assume the office.
However, the Nazis were well organised.
Within hours they managed to take control of many parts of Vienna, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs (controlling the Police).
As Miklas continued to refuse to appoint a Nazi government and Seyss-Inquart still could not send a telegram in the name of the Austrian government demanding German troops to restore order, Hitler became furious.
On the morning of 12 March, the 8th Army of the German Wehrmacht crossed the German-Austrian border.
They did not face resistance by the Austrian Army&mdash;on the contrary, the German troops were greeted by cheering Austrians with Hitler salute, Nazi flags and flowers.
For the Wehrmacht this invasion was the first big test of its machinery.
Although the invading forces were badly organized and coordination between the units was poor, it mattered little because no fighting took place.
It did, however, serve as a warning to German commanders in future military operations, such as that against Czechoslovakia.
Hitler's car crossed the border in the afternoon at Braunau, his birthplace.
In the evening, he arrived at Linz and was given an enthusiastic welcome in the city hall.
Hitler's further travel through Austria changed into a triumphal tour that climaxed in Vienna, on 2 April 1938, when around 200,000 Austrians gathered on the Heldenplatz (Square of Heroes) to hear Hitler proclaim the Austrian Anschluss.
I can only say: even in death they cannot stop lying.
I have in the course of my political struggle won much love from my people, but when I crossed the former frontier (into Austria) there met me such a stream of love as I have never experienced.
The Anschluss was given immediate effect by legislative act on 13 March, subject to ratification by a plebiscite.
Austria became the province of Ostmark, and Seyss-Inquart was appointed Governor.
The plebiscite was held on 10 April and officially recorded a support of 99.73% of the voters.
Hitler's brutal methods to emasculate any opposition were immediately implemented in the weeks preceding the referendum.
Even before the first German soldier crossed the border, Heinrich Himmler and a few SS officers landed in Vienna to arrest prominent representatives of the First Republic such as Richard Schmitz, Leopold Figl, Friedrich Hillegeist and Franz Olah.
During the few short weeks between the Anschluss and the plebiscite, Social Democrats, Communists, and other potential political dissenters, as well as Jews, were rounded up and either imprisoned or sent to concentration camps.
Within only a few days of 12 March, 70,000 people had been arrested.
The referendum itself was subject to large-scale propaganda and to the abrogation of the voting rights of around 400,000 people (nearly 10% of the eligible voting population), mainly former members of left-wing parties and Jews.
While historians concur that the result itself was not manipulated, the voting process was neither free nor secret.
Officials were present directly beside the voting booths and received the voting ballot by hand (in contrast to a secret vote where the voting ballot is inserted into a closed box).
In some remote areas of Austria the referendum on the independence of Austria on 13 March was held despite the Wehrmacht's presence in Austria (it took up to 3 days to occupy every part of Austria).
For instance, in the village of Innervillgraten a majority of 95% voted for Austria's independence.
Many Austrian political figures did not hesitate to announce their support of the Anschluss and their relief that it happened without violence.
Cardinal Vatican Secretary of State, ordered Innitzer to report to Rome.
Before meeting with the pope, Innitzer met with Pacelli, who had been outraged by Innitzer's statement.
The international response to the expansion of Germany may be described as moderate.
His Majesty's Government have throughout been in the closest touch with the situation.
The Foreign Secretary saw the German Foreign Minister on the 10th&nbsp;of March and addressed to him a grave warning on the Austrian situation and upon what appeared to be the policy of the German Government in regard to it.
Late on the 11th&nbsp;of March our Ambassador in Berlin registered a protest in strong terms with the German Government against such use of coercion, backed by force, against an independent State in order to create a situation incompatible with its national independence.
The moderate reaction to the Anschluss was the first major consequence of the strictly followed appeasement British foreign policy strategy.
The relatively bloodless Anschluss helped pave the way for the Treaty of Munich in September 1938 and the annexation of Czechoslovakia in 1939, because it reinforced appeasement as the right way for Britain to deal with Hitler's Germany.
The word "Anschluss" outside the context of March 1938 is properly translated as "joinder", "connection", "unification" or "political union".
The word Anschluss endured the years of the Second World War and the years thereafter, letting the term, despite its non-correlating to the actual events and propaganda usage in 1938 stand for the events that took place.
The Anschluss can be misunderstood as merely a military annexation.
This invites confusion with other German military occupations of European countries.
Adolf Hitler himself was an Austrian.
Despite the subversion by Hitler's sympathisers, Austrian acceptance of direct government by Hitler's Germany was a different phenomenon from the administration of other collaborationist countries.
At Nuremberg Arthur Seyss-Inquart and Franz von Papen, in particular, were both indicted under count one (conspiracy to commit crimes against peace) specifically for their activities in support of the Austrian Nazi Party and the Anschluss, but neither was convicted of this count.
In acquitting von Papen, the court noted that his actions were in its view political immoralities but not crimes under its charter.
Poland and the Netherlands, was sentenced to death and executed.
After World War II, many Austrians sought comfort in the idea of Austria as "the Nazis' first victim".
Although the Nazi party was promptly banned, Austria did not have the same thorough process of de-Nazification at the top of government which was imposed on Germany for a time.
As Austrian politicians of the Left and Right attempted to reconcile their differences in order to avoid the violent conflict that had dominated the First Republic, discussions of both Austrian-Nazism and Austria's role during the Nazi-era were largely avoided.
For decades, the victim theory established in the Austrian mind remained largely undisputed.
Despite the politicians' reactions to international criticism of Waldheim, the Waldheim affair started the first serious major discussion on Austria's past and the Anschluss.
Bernhard's achievement was to make the elimination of references to Hitler's reception in Vienna emblematic of Austrian attempts to claim their history and culture under questionable criteria.
Kurt Waldheim, who was at that time still Austrian president called the play "a crude insult to the Austrian people".
I personally would like to know why the WJC World Jewish Congress has hardly put any pressure on Austria, even as leading Nazis and SS leaders were Austrians, Hitler included.
Immediately after the war, the US wanted to make the Russians withdraw from Austria, and the Russians wanted to keep Austria neutral, therefore there was a common interest to grant Austria victim status.
And later Austria could cry poor - though its per capita income is as high as Germany's.
And, most importantly, the Austrian PR machinery works better.
The Simon Wiesenthal Center continues to criticise Austria (as recently as June 2005) for its alleged historical and ongoing unwillingness aggressively to pursue investigations and trials against Nazis for war crimes and crimes against humanity from the 1970s onwards.
Given the extensive participation of numerous Austrians, including at the highest levels, in the implementation of the Final Solution and other Nazi crimes, Austria should have been a leader in the prosecution of Holocaust perpetrators over the course of the past four decades, as has been the case in Germany.
In 2003, the Center launched a worldwide effort named "Operation: Last Chance" in order to collect further information about those Nazis still alive that are potentially subject to prosecution.
Although reports issued shortly thereafter credited Austria for initiating large-scale investigations, there has been one case where criticism of Austrian authorities arose recently: The Center has put 92-year old Croatian Milivoj Asner on its 2005 top ten list.
Asner fled to Austria in 2004 after Croatia announced it would start investigations in the case of war crimes he may have been involved in.
In response to objections about Asner's continued freedom, Austria's federal government has deferred to either extradition requests from Croatia or prosecutorial actions from Klagenfurt, neither of which appears forthcoming (as of June 2005).
Extradition is not an option since Asner also holds Austrian citizenship, having lived in the country from 1946 to 1991.
The "American Civil War" (1861&ndash;1865) was a presidential election of 1860 resulted in seven Southern states declaring their secession from the Union even before Lincoln took office.
The Union rejected secession, regarding it as rebellion.
Hostilities began on Antietam caused massive casualties unprecedented in U.S. military history.
In September 1862, Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation made ending slavery in the South a war goal, which complicated the Confederacy's manpower shortages.
In the East, Confederate commander Appomattox Court House in April 1865.
The war, the deadliest in American history, caused 620,000 soldier deaths and an undetermined number of civilian casualties, ended slavery in the United States, restored the Union by settling the issues of issues affected by the war's unresolved social, political, economic and racial tensions continue to shape contemporary American thought.
The coexistence of a slave-owning South with an increasingly anti-slavery North made conflict inevitable.
Much of the political battle in the 1850s focused on the expansion of slavery into the newly created territories.
All of the organized territories were likely to become free-soil states, which increased the Southern movement toward secession.
Both North and South assumed that if slavery could not expand it would wither and die.
Southern fears of losing control of the federal government to antislavery forces, and Northern fears that the Democratic Party, split along sectional lines.
Both North and South were influenced by the ideas of Declaration of Independence.
Northerners ranging from the abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison to the moderate Republican leader Abraham Lincoln emphasized Jefferson's declaration that all men are created equal.
Lincoln mentioned this proposition in his Gettysburg Address.
Historian Lost Cause.
All but one inter-regional crisis involved slavery, starting with debates on the three-fifths clause in the Constitutional Convention of 1787.
Southern secession was triggered by the election of Republican Abraham Lincoln because regional leaders feared that he would stop the expansion of slavery and put it on a course toward extinction.
Many Southerners thought either Lincoln or another Northerner would abolish slavery, and that it was time to secede.
The slave states, which had already become a minority in the House of Representatives, were now facing a future as a perpetual minority in the Senate and Electoral College against an increasingly powerful North.
Deep South states with the most slavery seceded first, followed by the secession of four more states following the Battle of Fort Sumter and Lincoln's subsequent call for each remaining state to provide troops to retake forts and suppress the insurrection.
Upper South states refused to send troops against their neighbors in what they considered an invasion.
A strong correlation was shown between the degree of support for secession and the number of plantations in the region; states of the deep South which had the greatest concentration of plantations were the first to secede.
The upper South slave states of Fort Sumter crisis forced them to choose sides.
Border states had fewer plantations still and never seceded.
The percentage of Southern whites living in families that owned slaves was 36.7 percent in the lower South, 25.3 percent in the upper South and 15.9 percent in the border states that fought mostly for the Union.
Ninety-five percent of blacks lived in the South, comprising one third of the population there as opposed to one percent of the population of the North.
Consequently, fears of eventual emancipation were much greater in the South than in the North.
Northern politician slave code for the territories was the issue used by Southern politicians to split the Democratic Party in two, which all but guaranteed the election of Lincoln and secession.
Southern concerns included not only economic loss but also fears of racial equality.
The Texas Declaration of Causes for Secession said that the non-slave-holding states were "proclaiming the debasing doctrine of equality of all men, irrespective of race or color", and that the African race "were rightfully held and regarded as an inferior and dependent race".
Before Lincoln took office, seven states had declared their secession from the Union.
They established a Southern government, the Confederate States of America on February 9 1861.
They took control of federal forts and other properties within their boundaries with little resistance from President Buchanan, whose term ended on March 4 1861.
The Revenue Act of 1861 introduced the income tax to help finance the war.
In April and May 1861, four more slave states seceded and joined the Confederacy: Arkansas, Tennessee, North Carolina and Virginia.
Virginia was split in two, with the eastern portion of that state seceding to the Confederacy and the northwestern part joining the Union as the new state of West Virginia on June 20 1863.
During the war, Nevada and West Virginia joined as new states of the Union.
Tennessee and Louisiana were returned to Union control early in the war.
The territories of Indian territory (now Oklahoma) a small bloody civil war.
The Border states in the Union were West Virginia (which was separated from Virginia and became a new state), and four of the five northernmost slave states (Maryland, Delaware, Missouri, and Kentucky).
In Missouri, an elected convention on secession voted decisively to remain within the Union.
Kentucky did not secede; for a time, it declared itself neutral.
However, the Confederates broke the neutrality by seizing Columbus, Kentucky in September 1861.
That turned opinion against the Confederacy, and the state reaffirmed its loyal status, while trying to maintain slavery.
During a brief invasion by Confederate forces, Confederate sympathizers organized a secession convention, inaugurated a governor, and gained recognition from the Confederacy.
The rebel government soon went into exile and never controlled the state.
Similar Unionist secessions attempts appeared in East Tennessee, but were suppressed by the Confederacy.
Jefferson Davis arrested over 3000 men suspected of being loyal to the Union and held them without trial.
Over 10,000 military engagements took place during the war, 40% of them in Virginia and Tennessee.
Since separate articles deal with every major battle and many minor ones, this article only gives the broadest outline.
For more information see List of American Civil War battles and Military leadership in the American Civil War.
However, governors in Massachusetts, New York, and Pennsylvania quietly began buying weapons and training militia units.
On Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, that it was a binding contract, and called any secession "legally void".
He stated he had no intent to invade Southern states, nor did he intend to end slavery where it existed, but that he would use force to maintain possession of federal property.
His speech closed with a plea for restoration of the bonds of union.
The South sent delegations to Washington and offered to pay for the federal properties and enter into a peace treaty with the United States.
Lincoln rejected any negotiations with Confederate agents on the grounds that the Confederacy was not a legitimate government, and that making any treaty with it would be tantamount to recognition of it as a sovereign government.
However, Secretary of State William Seward engaged in unauthorized and indirect negotiations that failed.
Four states in the upper South (Tennessee, Arkansas, North Carolina, and Virginia), which had repeatedly rejected Confederate overtures, now refused to send forces against their neighbors, declared their secession, and joined the Confederacy.
To reward Virginia, the Confederate capital was moved to Petersburg and its railroads that supplied the Southern capital.
In May 1861, Lincoln enacted the Union blockade of all Southern ports, ending most international shipments to the Confederacy.
Violators' ships and cargos could be seized and were often not covered by insurance.
By late 1861, the blockade stopped most local port-to-port traffic.
The blockade shut down Bahamas in return for high-priced cotton and tobacco.
When captured, the blockade runners and cargo were sold and the proceeds given to the Union sailors, but the British crews were released.
Shortages of food and other goods triggered by the blockade, foraging by Northern armies, and the impressment of crops by Confederate armies combined to cause hyperinflation and bread riots in the South.
On Battle of the Ironclads.
The battle ended in a draw, which was a strategic victory for the Union in that the blockade was sustained.
The Confederacy lost the CSS "Virginia" when the ship was scuttled to prevent capture, and the Union built many copies of the USS "Monitor".
Lacking the technology to build effective warships, the Confederacy attempted to obtain warships from Britain.
The Union victory at the Second Battle of Fort Fisher in January 1865 closed the last useful Southern port and virtually ended blockade running.
John Pope's Union Army of Virginia, which made it easier for Lee's Confederates to defeat twice the number of combined enemy troops.
Emboldened by Second Bull Run, the Confederacy made its first invasion of the North, when General Lee led 45,000 men of the Sharpsburg, Maryland, on September 17 1862, the bloodiest single day in United States military history.
Lee's army, checked at last, returned to Virginia before McClellan could destroy it.
Antietam is considered a Union victory because it halted Lee's invasion of the North and provided an opportunity for Lincoln to announce his Emancipation Proclamation.
When the cautious McClellan failed to follow up on Antietam, he was replaced by Maj.
Pickett's Charge on July 3 is often recalled as the high-water mark of the Confederacy, not just because it signaled the end of Lee's plan to pressure Washington from the north, but also because Vicksburg, Mississippi, the key stronghold to control of the Mississippi, fell the following day.
However, Lincoln was angry that Meade failed to intercept Lee's retreat, and after Meade's inconclusive Fall campaign, Lincoln decided to turn to the Western Theater for new leadership.
While the Confederate forces had numerous successes in the Eastern theater, they were defeated many times in the West.
They were driven from Missouri early in the war as a result of the Columbus, Kentucky ended Kentucky's policy of neutrality and turned that state against the Confederacy.
General William Rosecrans at the Battle of Stones River in Tennessee.
The one clear Confederate victory in the West was the Chattanooga, which Bragg then besieged.
The Union's key strategist and tactician in the West was Maj.
Third Battle of Chattanooga, driving Confederate forces out of Tennessee and opening a route to Atlanta and the heart of the Confederacy.
At the beginning of 1864, Lincoln made Grant commander of all Union armies.
Grant made his headquarters with the Army of the Potomac, and put Maj.
Grant finally found a commander, General the Battle of Cedar Creek.
Sheridan then proceeded to destroy the agricultural base of the Shenandoah Valley, a strategy similar to the tactics Sherman later employed in Georgia.
Meanwhile, Sherman marched from Chattanooga to Atlanta, defeating Confederate Generals the Battle of Nashville, effectively destroying Hood's army.
Sherman's army was followed by thousands of freed slaves; there were no major battles along the March.
Sherman turned north through South Carolina and North Carolina to approach the Confederate Virginia lines from the south, increasing the pressure on Lee's army.
Lee's army, thinned by desertion and casualties, was now much smaller than Grant's.
Lee surrendered his Army of Northern Virginia on England.
Lincoln mentioned his Emancipation Proclamation to members of his cabinet on July 21 1862.
Since the Emancipation Proclamation was based on the President's war powers, it only included territory held by Confederates at the time.
However, the Proclamation became a symbol of the Union's growing commitment to add emancipation to the Union's definition of liberty.
Lincoln also played a leading role in getting Congress to vote for the Thirteenth Amendment, which made emancipation universal and permanent.
Confederates enslaved captured black Union soldiers, and black soldiers especially were shot when trying to surrender at the Andersonville prison in Georgia where almost 13,000 Union prisoners of war died of starvation and disease.
The Emancipation Proclamation greatly reduced the Confederacy's hope of getting aid from Britain or France.
Lincoln's moderate approach succeeded in getting border states, War Democrats and emancipated slaves fighting on the same side for the Union.
The Union-controlled border states (Kentucky, Missouri, Maryland, Delaware and West Virginia) were not covered by the Emancipation Proclamation.
All abolished slavery on their own, except Kentucky and Delaware.
The great majority of the 4 million slaves were freed by the Emancipation Proclamation, as Union armies moved South.
The 13th amendment, ratified December 6 1865, finally freed the remaining slaves in Kentucky and Delaware that numbered 225,000 for Kentucky and 1,800 in Delaware as of 1860.
Entry into the war by Britain and France on behalf of the Confederacy would have greatly increased the South's chances of winning independence from the Union.
The Union, under Lincoln and Secretary of State William Henry Seward worked to block this, and threatened war if any country officially recognized the existence of the Confederate States of America (none ever did).
In 1861, Southerners voluntarily embargoed cotton shipments, hoping to start an economic depression in Europe that would force Britain to enter the war in order to get cotton.
When the UK did face a cotton shortage, it was temporary, being replaced by increased cultivation in Egypt and India.
Meanwhile, the war created employment for arms makers, iron workers, and British ships to transport weapons.
After 1846, Northern industry lacked the assistance of a high protective tariff.
Since the war's end, it has been arguable whether the South could have really won the war.
A significant number of scholars believe that the Union held an insurmountable advantage over the Confederacy in terms of industrial strength and population.
Confederate actions, they argue, could only delay defeat.
Also important were Lincoln's eloquence in rationalizing the national purpose and his skill in keeping the border states committed to the Union cause.
Although Lincoln's approach to emancipation was slow, the Emancipation Proclamation was an effective use of the President's war powers.
Comparison of Union and CSA!
The more industrialized economy of the North aided in the production of arms, munitions and supplies, as well as finances, and transportation.
The table shows the relative advantage of the Union over the Confederate States of America (CSA) at the start of the war.
The advantages widened rapidly during the war, as the Northern economy grew, and Confederate territory shrank and its economy weakened.
The Union population was 22 million and the South 9 million in 1861; the Southern population included more than 3.5 million slaves and about 5.5 million whites, thus leaving the South's white population outnumbered by a ratio of more than four to one compared to that of the North.
The disparity grew as the Union controlled more and more southern territory with garrisons, and cut off the trans-Mississippi part of the Confederacy.
The Union at the start controlled over 80% of the shipyards, steamships, river boats, and the Navy.
It augmented these by a massive shipbuilding program.
This enabled the Union to control the river systems and to blockade the entire southern coastline.
Excellent railroad links between Union cities allowed for the quick and cheap movement of troops and supplies.
Transportation was much slower and more difficult in the South which was unable to augment its much smaller rail system, repair damage, or even perform routine maintenance.
The Emancipation Proclamation enabled African-Americans, both free blacks and escaped slaves, to join the Union Army.
About 190,000 volunteered, further enhancing the numerical advantage the Union armies enjoyed over the Confederates, who did not dare emulate the equivalent manpower source for fear of fundamentally undermining the legitimacy of slavery.
Emancipated slaves fought in several key battles in the last two years of the war.
European immigrants joined the Union Army in large numbers too.
Union soldiers were German-Americans; about 216,000 were born in Germany.
Northern leaders agreed that victory would require more than the end of fighting.
It had to encompass the two war goals: Secession had to be totally repudiated, and all forms of slavery had to be eliminated.
They disagreed sharply on the criteria for these goals.
They also disagreed on the degree of federal control that should be imposed on the South, and the process by which Southern states should be reintegrated into the Union.
Reconstruction, which began early in the war and ended in 1877, involved a complex and rapidly changing series of federal and state policies.
Commager, Henry Steele (ed.).
Blue and the Gray.
Hollywood celebrities and wealthy aristocrats.
Andy Warhol was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
In scarlet fever.
This disease led to a blotchiness in pigmentation of his skin and, as a child, he became somewhat of a hypochondriac, developing a fear of hospitals and medical doctors.
Because he was at times bed-ridden as a child, he became an outcast among his school-mates and bonded with his mother very strongly (Guiles, 1989).
When in bed he used to draw, listen to the radio and collect pictures of movie stars around his bed.
Looking back later, Warhol described the period of his sickness as very important in the development of his personality and in the forming of his skill-set and preferences.
Warhol showed an early artistic talent and studied School of Fine Arts at Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh (now Carnegie Mellon University).
In 1949, he moved to New York City and began a successful career in magazine illustration and advertising.
He became well-known mainly for his whimsical ink drawings of shoes done in a loose, blotted ink style.
These figured in some of his earliest showings in New York at the Bodley Gallery.
Warhol's work from this period revolves around American Pop (Popular) Culture.
This quotation both expresses his affection for popular culture, and evidences an ambiguity of perspective that cuts across nearly all of the artist's statements about his own work.
Critics were scandalized by Warhol's open embrace of market culture.
As an advertisement illustrator in the 1950s, Warhol used assistants to increase his productivity.
Collaboration would remain a defining (and controversial) aspect of his working methods throughout his career; in the 1960s, however, this was particularly true.
By the end of the decade, Andy Warhol was himself a celebrity, appearing frequently in newspapers and magazines alongside Factory cohorts like Sedgwick.
On June 3, 1968, Valerie Solanas shot Warhol and art critic and curator Mario Amaya at Warhol's studio.
Before the shooting, Solanas had been a marginal figure in the Factory scene.
Amaya received only minor injuries and was released from hospital later the same day.
Warhol however was seriously wounded by the attack and barely survived (doctors opened his chest and massaged his heart to help stimulate its movement again).
He suffered physical effects for the rest of his life.
The shooting had a profound effect on Warhol's life and art.
Solanas was arrested the day after the assault.
Compared to the success and scandal of Warhol's work in the 1960s, the 1970s would prove a much quieter decade.
This period, however, saw Warhol becoming more entrepreneurial.
Warhol also had an appreciation for intense Hollywood glamour.
I love Hollywood.
They're so beautiful.
Everything's plastic, but I love plastic.
Throughout his career, Warhol produced erotic photography and drawings of male nudes.
Warhol was a practicing Mass during his life, and the priest at Warhol's church, Saint Vincent's, said that the artist went there almost daily.
His art is noticeably influenced by the eastern Christian iconographic tradition which was so evident in his places of worship.
Warhol's brother has described the artist as "really religious, but he didn't want people to know about that because [it was] private".
Warhol died in New York City at 6:32 a.m. on heart attack.
The hospital staff had failed to adequately monitor his condition and overloaded him with fluids after his operation, causing him to suffer from a fatal case of water intoxication, which prompted Warhol's lawyers to sue the hospital for negligence.
Prior to his diagnosis and operation, Warhol delayed having his recurring gallbladder problems checked, as he was afraid to enter hospitals and see doctors.
Warhol's body was taken back to Pittsburgh by his brothers for burial.
The funeral liturgy was held at the North Side.
The eulogy was given by Monsignor Peter Tay.
Fellow artist Yoko Ono also made an appearance.
The coffin was covered with white roses and asparagus ferns.
Reed and Cale had been playing the songs live in 1989 as a song cycle before committing them to tape.
By the end of recording Cale vowed never to work with Reed again due to personal differences; nevertheless, Songs for Drella would prove to be the overture to a full-blown Velvet Underground reunion.
Although the album was conceived as an indivisible whole, a single was released off it, "Nobody But You".
On the twentieth anniversary of his death The Gershwin Hotel in New York City held a week-long series of events commemorating Warhol's art and his superstars.
There was an award ceremony, a fashion show, and Ultra Violet, Billy Name, Taylor Mead, and Ivy Nicholson as well as art by a younger generation of artists who have been inspired by Warhol.
One interactive sculpture in the exhibit, "The Great Warhola", by Cynthia von Buhler, depicted Warhol as an arcade fortune-telling machine.
The gallery was transformed to look like Warhol's silver factory.
Edie Sedgwick, starring Sienna Miller and Hayden Christensen, was also released one week before the anniversary of Warhol's death.
By the beginning of the 1960s, Warhol was a very successful commercial illustrator.
In the early 1960s, Warhol tried to exhibit some of his drawings using these techniques in a gallery, only to be turned down.
He began to rethink the relationship between his commercial work and the rest of his art.
Instead of treating these things as opposites, he merged them, and began to take commercial and popular culture more explicitly as his topic.
To him, part of defining a niche was defining his subject matter.
Cartoons were already being used by Lichtenstein, Campbell's Soup, which he claimed to have had for lunch for most of his life.
He loved celebrities, so he painted them as well.
From these beginnings he developed his later style and subjects.
Instead of working on a signature subject matter, as he started out to do, he worked more and more on a signature style, slowly eliminating the hand-made from the artistic process.
Warhol frequently used silk-screening; his later drawings were traced from slide projections.
Warhol went from being a painter to being a designer of paintings.
At the height of his fame as a painter, Warhol had several assistants who produced his silk-screen multiples, following his directions to make different versions and variations.
Warhol produced both comic and serious works; his subject could be a soup can or an electric chair.
Warhol's work as a Pop Artist has always had oxidation paintings (canvases prepared with copper paint that was then oxidized with urine) are also noteworthy in this context.
Warhol worked across a wide range of media &mdash; painting, photography, drawing, and sculpture.
In addition, he was a highly prolific filmmaker.
Between 1963 and 1968, he made more than sixty films.
The film was until recently thought to have been lost, until scenes from the picture were shown at some length in the 2006 documentary "Jack Smith and the Destruction of Atlantis".
Warhol's 1965 film "Jack Smith appears in the film "Camp".
These and other titles document gay underground and camp culture, and continue to feature prominently in scholarship about sexuality and art - see, for example, Mathew Tinkom's "Working Like a Homosexual" (Duke University Press, 2002) or Juan Suarez's "Bike Boys, Drag Queens, and Superstars" (Indiana University Press, 1996).
Warhol superstar Viva makes love and fools around in bed with a man for 33 minutes of the film's playing-time, was Warhol's last film as director.
The film was at the time scandalous for its frank approach to a sexual encounter.
For many years Viva refused to allow it to be screened.
It was publicly screened in New York in 2005 for the first time in over thirty years.
In order to facilitate the success of these Warhol-branded, Morrissey-directed movies in the marketplace, all of Warhol's earlier avant-garde films were removed from distribution and exhibition by 1972.
Carroll Baker, Susan Blond and a young Perry King.
The first volume of a catalogue raisonne for the Factory film archive, edited by Callie Angell, was published in the spring of 2006.
In the mid 1960s, Warhol adopted the band The Velvet Underground, making them a crucial element of the Exploding Plastic Inevitable multimedia performance art show.
Warhol, with Paul Morrissey, acted as the band's manager, introducing them to Nico (who would perform with the band at Warhol's request).
His actual participation in the album's production amounted to simply paying for the studio time.
After the band's first album, Warhol and band leader Lou Reed started to disagree more about the direction the band should take, and the contact between them faded.
Beginning in the early 1950s, Warhol produced several unbound portfolios of his work.
The first of several bound self-published books by Warhol was "25 Cats Name Sam and One Blue Pussy", printed in 1954 by Seymour Berlin on Arches brand watermarked paper using his blotted line technique for the lithographs.
The loopy title script on the cover is thought to be either his own handwriting or that of his mother, Julia Warhola, who would often do text work for his early commercial pieces.
As stated, although Andy Warhol is most known for his paintings and films, he has authored works in many different media.
In many ways Warhol refined and expanded the idea of what it means to be an artist.
Warhol frequently took on the position of a producer, rather than a creator - this is true not only of his work as a painter (he had assistants do much of the work of producing his paintings), it is true of his film-making and commercial enterprises as well.
He liked to coin an idea and then oversee or delegate its execution.
As he refined this element of his work The Factory evolved from an atelier into an office.
He became (and still is) the public face of a company, and a brand.
Two museums are dedicated to Andy Warhol.
The Andy Warhol Museum, one of the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, is located at 117 Sandusky Street in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
It is the largest American art museum dedicated to a single artist, holding more than 12,000 works by the artist himself.
The other museum is the 1991 by Andy's brother John Warhola, the Slovak Ministry of Culture, and the Warhol Foundation in New York.
It is located in the small town of Medzilaborce, Slovakia.
Andy Warhol is portrayed by 2007 film, "Factory Girl".
The 2001 documentary, "Absolut Warhola", was produced by German director Stanislaw Mucha, featuring Warhol's parents' family and hometown in Slovakia.
Who's the Mack?
The songs delve into the issues of ghetto life, drug addiction, racism and poverty.
Throughout the album, Ice Cube incessantly attacks racist institutions and social norms which directly or indirectly allow the oppression of those living in the ghettos of Los Angeles to continue.
Ice Cube on their tune "It's a Man's World"; Yo-Yo didn't agree.
Judging from the audience's equally vociferous response, no one came out ahead; any new sense of cultural violence or sexism promoted by the record had dissolved into a traditional battle of the sexes, no better or no worse.
Nevertheless, the album received criticism for alleged sexism, particularly for "You Can't Fade Me," a track, in which Cube fantasizes about kicking a pregnant, former one-night stand in the stomach in order to cause a miscarriage, and avoid having to pay child support.
The release of "AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted", and its subsequent success were wholly unexpected, as Cube had only recently split from his former group, Platinum two months later.
It was the second album to be awarded this, and up until Jay-Z's "The Blueprint" in 2001, one of only ten albums to be approved for five mics by The Source.
In 1998, the album was selected as one of The Source Magazine's 100 Best Rap Albums.
In 2005, comedian Chris Rock ranked it 17th on his list of the Top 25 Hip-Hop Albums ever.
Produced entirely by the Bomb Squad (during the height of Public Enemy's success) and Da Lench Mob, "AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted" received accolades for innovation in production upon release.
Although Ice Cube's popularity among mainstream listeners has lessened since the 2000s, and his sound may be considered distinctively Saigon.
While Ice Cube's early albums often described true circumstances in outlandish fashion, for example using fairytale characters to tell a violent and tragic story in "A Gangsta's Fairytale", later rappers would take this to the extreme, often describing physically impossible acts of violence in an outrageously exaggerated manner.
Bambaataa (left) with DJ Yutaka (right) in 2004.
Like many of the early pioneers in Hip-Hop, he is of West Indian descent.
On September 27, 2007, he was nominated for induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Bambaataa was a founding member of the Bronx River Projects-area street gang, The Savage Seven.
Due to the explosive growth of the gang, it later became known as the Black Spades, and he rose to the position of Division Leader.
After a life-changing visit to Africa, he changed his name to "Afrika Bambaataa Aasim".
Bambaataa was influenced by the courage and strategic brilliance of Shaka Zulu seen in the movie and TV series "Shaka Zulu".
Bambaataa decided to use his leadership to turn those involved in the gang life into something more positive to the community.
This began the development of which later became known as the Universal Zulu Nation, a group of socially & politically aware rappers, B-boys, graffiti artists and other people involved in hip hop culture.
By 1977, inspired by DJ Kool Herc and after Disco King Mario loaned him his first equipment, Bambaataa began organizing block parties all around the South Bronx.
He even faced his mentor, Disco King Mario in a DJ battle.
He then began performing at Stevenson High School and formed the Bronx River organization, then later simply "The Organization".
About a year later he reformed the group, calling it the Zulu Nation (inspired by his wide studies on African history at the time).
Five b-boys (break dancers) joined him who he called the Shaka ZULU Kings, a.k.a. ZULU Kings; there were also the Shaka Zulu Queens.
As he continued deejaying, more DJs, rappers, break dancers, graffiti writers, and artists followed his parties, and he took them under his wing and made them members of his Zulu Nation.
In 1980, his groups made their first recording with Paul Winley Records titled, "Death Mix".
Winley also recorded Soul Sonic Force's landmark single, "Zulu Nation Throwdown", produced by Disco King Mario.
Disappointed with the results of the single, he left the company.
In 1982, hip-hop artist Fab 5 Freddy was putting together music packages in the largely white downtown electronic and dance music, e.g. freestyle music, house music and techno music.
Bambaataa organized the very first European hip hop tour.
Along with himself were rapper and graffiti artist Dondi.
Afrika Bambaataa is one of the three main originators of break-beat deejaying, and is respectfully known as the "Grandfather" and "Godfather" of Hip Hop Culture as well as The Father of The Electro Funk Sound.
Bam's second release around 1983 was "Looking for the Perfect Beat," then later, "Renegades of Funk," both with the same SoulSonic Force.
In 1990, Bam made Life magazine's "Most Important Americans of the 20th Century" issue.
He was also involved in the anti-apartheid work "Hip Hop Artists Against Apartheid" for Warlock Records.
He teamed with the Jungle Brothers to record the album Return to Planet Rock (The Second Coming).
Around the early 1990s, many violent films were produced that glorified California gang life, fueling hype about "Bloods" and "Crips".
The Bloods and Crips, two major black street gangs that feud in West Coast ghettos, had now been adopted by New York and other East Coast youth who admired the image seen on screen.
A rash of initiation assaults, raids, and gang violence ensued after being denounced in the early stages of hip hop.
Suddenly a trend of Bloods and Crips association and attire was seen in rap music, and gangs began to target innocent people and fight with each other.
Bambaataa, having seen it lead to increased negativity in the past, began holding peace conferences.
He called on all gang leaders from the Latin Kings street gang, Crips, and Bloods and formed a peace treaty in the streets.
Name of this Nation.
He succeeded his father Chagri Begh as governor of Persia from the river Oxus to the Tigris.
In consolidating his empire and subduing contending factions he was ably assisted by Georgia, which he conquered in 1064.
In emperor Romanus IV Diogenes, assuming the command in person, met the invaders in Cilicia.
In three arduous campaigns, the first two of which were conducted by the emperor himself while the third was directed by Manuel Comnenus (great-uncle of Emperor Manuel Comnenus), the Turks were defeated in detail in 1070 driven across the Euphrates.
In 1071 Romanus again took the field and advanced with 40,000 men, including a contingent of the Cuman Turks as well as contingents of Franks and Normans, under Ursel of Bahol, into Armenia.
At Manzikert, on the Murad Tchai, north of Lake Van, Diogenes was met by Alp Arslan.
The sultan proposed terms of peace, which were rejected by the emperor, and the two forces met in the Battle of Manzikert.
Emperor Romanus IV was himself taken prisoner and conducted into the presence of Alp Arslan, who treated him with generosity, and, terms of peace having been agreed to, dismissed him, loaded with presents and respectfully attended by a military guard.
Alp Arslan's victories changed the balance in near Asia completely in favour of the Sunni Muslims.
While the Byzantine Empire was to continue for nearly another four centuries, and the Crusades would contest the issue for some time, the victory at Manzikert signalled the beginning of Turkish ascendancy in Anatolia.
Most historians, including Edward Gibbon, date the defeat at Manzikert as the beginning of the end of the Eastern Roman Empire.
Certainly the entry of Turkic farmers following their horsemen ended the themes in Anatolia which had furnished the Empire with men and treasure.
Alp Arslan's strength lay in the military realm.
Domestic affairs were handled by his able Persian vizier, Nizam al-Mulk, the founder of the administrative organization which characterized and strengthened the sultanate during the reigns of Alp Arslan and his son, Malik Shah.
Military fiefs, governed by Seljuk princes, were established to provide support for the soldiery and to accommodate the nomadic Turks to the established Persian agricultural scene.
This type of military fiefdom enabled the nomadic Turks to draw on the resources of the sedentary Persians and other established cultures within the Seljuk realm, and allowed Alp Arslan to field a huge standing army, without depending on tribute from conquest to pay his soldiery.
He not only had enough food from his subjects to maintain his military, but the taxes collected from traders and merchants added to his coffers sufficiently to fund his continuous wars.
The dominion of Alp Arslan after Manzikert extended over much of western Khwarezmian.
He was, however, obliged to surrender and was carried a prisoner before the sultan, who condemned him to a cruel death.
Yussuf, in desperation, drew his dagger and rushed upon the sultan.
Alp Arslan, who took great pride in his reputation as the foremost archer of his time, motioned to his guards not to interfere and drew his bow, but his foot slipped, the arrow glanced aside and he received the assassin's dagger in his breast.
As he lay dying, Alp Arslan whispered to his son that his vanity had killed him.
I should have allowed them to do their job.
I had been warned against trying to protect myself, and against letting my courage get in the way of my good sense.
I forgot those warnings, and here I lay, dying in agony.
Since the 2002 Turkmen calendar reform, the month of August has been named after Arp Arslan.
In 1973, the AFI established a Life Achievement Award.
Their own film festival, "AFI Fest" , was launched in 1987 and has been held every year.
United States to carry FIAPF accreditation.
Beginning in 2007, AFI opened up a satellite festival under the name AFI DALLAS.
In 1998, the 100th anniversary of American film, AFI began its 100 Years.
In law the auteur is the creator of a film as a work of art, and is the original copyright holder.
Under European Union law the film director shall always be considered the author or one of the authors of a film.
Truffaut's theory maintains that all good directors (and many bad ones) have such a distinctive style or consistent theme that their influence is unmistakable in the body of their work.
Truffaut himself was appreciative of both directors with a marked visual style (such as Alfred Hitchcock), and those whose visual style was less pronounced but who had nevertheless a consistent theme throughout their movies (such as Jean Renoir's humanism).
Starting in the 1960s, some film critics began criticizing auteur theory's focus on the authorial role of the director.
Pauline Kael and Sarris feuded in the pages of "The New Yorker" and various film magazines.
One reason for the backlash is the collaborative aspect of shooting a film (one person cannot do everything) and in the theory's privileging of the role of the director (whose name, at times, has become more important than the movie itself).
As well, the very people who had once championed the auteur theory began to back away from it.
The auteur theory was also challenged and undermined by the influence of New Criticism, a school of literary criticism.
The New Critics argued that critics made an "intentional fallacy" when they tried to interpret works of art by speculating about what the author meant, based on the author's personality or life experiences.
New Critics argued that that information or speculation about an author's intention was secondary to the words on the page as the basis of the experience of reading literature.
The influence of reception and cultural studies approaches broadened the context of meaning and interpretation as manifestations of culturally determined institutions in which authors and readers (directors and spectators) as well as texts (films) and their meanings are produced and reproduced.
Akira Kurosawa was born to Isamu and Shima Kurosawa on March 23, 1910.
He was the youngest of eight children born to the Kurosawas in a suburb of Tokyo.
Shima Kurosawa was forty years old at the time of Akira's birth and his father Isamu was forty-five.
Akira Kurosawa grew up in a household with three older brothers and four older sisters.
Of his three older brothers, one died before Akira was born and one was already grown and out of the household.
One of his four older sisters had also left the home to begin her own family before Kurosawa was born.
Kurosawa's next-oldest sibling, a sister he called "Little Big Sister," also died suddenly after a short illness when he was ten years old.
Kurosawa's father worked as the director of a junior high school operated by the Japanese military and the Kurosawas descended from a line of former samurai.
Financially, the family was above average.
Isamu Kurosawa embraced western culture both in the athletic programs that he directed and by taking the family to see films, which were then just beginning to appear in Japanese theaters.
Later, when Japanese culture turned away from western films, Isamu Kurosawa continued to believe that films were a positive educational experience.
In primary school, Akira Kurosawa was encouraged to draw by a teacher who took an interest in mentoring his talents.
His older brother, Heigo, had a profound impact on him.
Heigo was very intelligent and won several academic competitions, but also had what was later called a cynical or dark side.
Heigo eventually began a career as a Communist, despite his activities that he later would describe as reckless.
When Akira Kurosawa was in his early 20s, his older brother Heigo committed suicide.
Four months later, the oldest of Kurosawa's brothers also died, leaving Akira as the only surviving son of an original four at age 23.
Kurosawa had a distinctive cinematic technique, which he had developed by the 1950s, and which gave his films a unique look.
He liked using telephoto lenses for the way they flattened the frame and also because he believed that placing cameras farther away from his actors produced better performances.
He also liked using multiple cameras, which allowed him to shoot an action scene from different angles.
Another Kurosawa trademark was the use of weather elements to heighten mood: for example the heavy rain in the opening scene of "Rashomon", and the final battle in "frame wipes, sometimes cleverly hidden by motion within the frame, as a transition device.
He was known as "Tenno", literally "Emperor", for his dictatorial directing style.
He was a perfectionist who spent enormous amounts of time and effort to achieve the desired visual effects.
In "Throne of Blood", the final scene in which Mifune is shot by arrows, Kurosawa used real arrows shot by expert archers from a short range, landing within centimetres of Mifune's body.
Fuji only to be burned to the ground in a climactic scene.
His perfectionism also showed in his approach to costumes: he felt that giving an actor a brand new costume made the character look less than authentic.
A notable feature of Kurosawa's films is the breadth of his artistic influences.
Some of his plots are adaptations of memoir of the same title by Russian explorer Vladimir Arsenyev.
Story lines in "Red Beard" can be found in "The Insulted and Humiliated" by Dostoevsky.
The American film director John Ford also had a large influence on his work.
Despite criticism by some Japanese critics that Kurosawa was "too Western", he was deeply influenced by Japanese culture as well, including the Kabuki and Noh theaters and the Jidaigeki (period drama) genre of Japanese cinema.
Kurosawa's films have had a major influence on world cinema and continue to inspire filmmakers, and others, around the globe.
Westerns, Science Fiction, and Chinese Martial Arts.
Tamil films "Andha Naal" (1954) and "Virumaandi" (2004), starring Kamal Hassan, employ a storytelling method similar to that Kurosawa uses in "Rashomon".
Japanese cinema to the world, but also entered the English language as a term for fractured, inconsistent narratives (see rashomon effect).
During his most productive period, from the late 40s to the mid-60s, Kurosawa often worked with the same group of collaborators.
The film "Red Beard" marked a turning point in Kurosawa's career in more ways than one.
In addition to being his last film with Mifune, it was his last in black-and-white.
It was also his last as a major director within the Japanese studio system making roughly a film a year.
Century Fox replaced him with Toshio Masuda and Kinji Fukasaku before it was completed.
His next few films were a lot harder to finance and were made at intervals of five years.
After an attempted suicide, Kurosawa went on to make several more films, although he had great difficulty in obtaining domestic financing despite his international reputation.
Shakespeare's King Lear, set in medieval Japan.
It was by far the largest project of Kurosawa's late career, and he spent a decade planning it and trying to obtain funding, which he was finally able to do with the help of the French producer Serge Silberman.
The film was an international success and is generally considered Kurosawa's last masterpiece.
Kurosawa made three more films during the 1990s which were more personal than his earlier works.
Kurosawa died of a stroke in Setagaya, Tokyo, at age 88.
Kurosawa's wife was Yoko Yaguchi.
He had two children with her: a son named Hisao and a daughter named Kazuko.
Ancient Egyptian civilization began around 3150 BC with the political unification of the major Nile Valley cultures under the first Egypt and made it a province.
The civilization of ancient Egypt was based on balanced control of natural and human resources under the leadership of the pharaoh, religious leaders, and court administrators.
It was notable for many innovations: controlled religious beliefs.
By the late Paleolithic, the arid climate of northern Africa had become increasingly hot and dry, forcing the population to concentrate along the Nile valley, and since nomadic hunter-gatherers began living in the region during the Pleistocene some 1.8 million years ago, the Nile has been the lifeline of Egypt.
The fertile floodplain of the Nile gave humans the opportunity to develop a settled agricultural economy and a more sophisticated, centralized society that became a cornerstone in the history of human civilization.
By about 5500 BC, small tribes living in the Nile valley had developed into a series of unique cultures demonstrating firm control of agriculture and animal husbandry and identifiable by their unique pottery and personal items, such as combs, bracelets, and beads.
The largest of these early cultures in upper Egypt, the Badari, was known for its high quality ceramics, stone tools, and its use of copper.
Their burials, simple pit graves with signs of social stratification, suggest that the culture was coming under the control of more powerful leaders.
In southern Egypt, the Abydos, Naqada leaders expanded their control of Egypt northwards along the Nile and engaged in trade with Nubia, the oases of the western desert, and the cultures of the eastern Mediterranean.
The Naqada culture manufactured a diverse array of material goods, reflective of the increasing power and wealth of the elite, which included painted pottery, high quality decorative stone vases, cosmetic palettes, and jewelry made of gold, lapis, and ivory.
They also developed a ceramic glaze known as faience which was used well into the Roman Period to decorate cups, amulets, and figurines.
During the last phase of the predynastic, the Naqada culture began using written symbols which would eventually evolve into a full system of hieroglyphs for writing the ancient Egyptian language.
The transition to a unified state actually happened more gradually than the ancient Egyptian writers would have us believe, and there is no contemporary record of Menes.
Scholars now believe, however, that the mythical Menes may have actually been the pharaoh Narmer, who is depicted wearing royal regalia on the ceremonial Narmer Palette in a symbolic act of unification.
The third century BC Egyptian priest Manetho grouped the lengthy line of pharaohs following Menes into 30 dynasties, a system still in use today.
In the early dynastic period about 3150 BC, the first pharaohs solidified their control over lower Egypt by establishing a capital at Memphis, from which they could control the labor force and agriculture of the fertile delta region as well as the lucrative and critical trade routes to the Levant.
The increasing power and wealth of the pharaohs during the early dynastic period was reflected in their elaborate mastaba tombs and mortuary cult structures at Abydos which were used to celebrate the deified pharaoh after his death.
The strong institution of kingship developed by the pharaohs served to legitimize state control over the land, labor, and resources that were essential to the survival and growth of ancient Egyptian civilization.
Stunning advances in architecture, art, and technology were made during Old Kingdom, fueled by the increased agricultural productivity made possible by a well developed central administration.
Under the direction of the vizier, state officials collected taxes, coordinated irrigation projects to improve crop yield, drafted peasants to work on construction projects, and established a justice system to maintain peace and order.
With the surplus resources made available by a productive and stable economy, the state was able to sponsor construction of colossal monuments and to commission exceptional works of art from the royal workshops.
The pyramids built by Djoser, Khufu, and their descendants stand as eternal symbols of the power of the pharaohs.
Along with the rising importance of a central administration arose a new class of educated scribes and officials who were granted estates by the pharaoh in payment for their services.
Pharaohs also made land grants to their mortuary cults and local temples to ensure that these institutions would have the necessary resources to worship the pharaoh after his death.
By the end of the Old Kingdom, five centuries of these feudal practices had slowly eroded the economic power of the pharaoh, who could no longer afford to support a large centralized administration.
As the power of the pharaoh diminished, regional governors called severe droughts between 2200 and 2150 BC, ultimately caused the country to enter a 140 year period of famine and strife known as the First Intermediate Period.
After Egypt's central government collapsed at the end of the Old Kingdom, the administration could no longer support or stabilize the country's economy.
Regional governors could not rely on the king for help in times of crisis, and the ensuing food shortages and political disputes escalated into famines and small scale civil wars.
Yet despite difficult problems, local leaders, owing no tribute to the pharaoh, used their newfound independence to establish a thriving culture in the provinces.
Once in control of their own resources, the provinces became economically richer&mdash;a fact demonstrated by larger and better burials among all social classes.
In bursts of creativity, provincial artisans adopted and adapted cultural motifs formerly restricted to the royalty of the Old Kingdom, and scribes developed literary styles which expressed the optimism and originality of the period.
Free from their loyalties to the pharaoh, local rulers began competing with each other for territorial control and political power.
By 2160 BC, rulers in Hierakonpolis controlled Lower Egypt while a rival clan based in Nebhepetre Mentuhotep II finally defeated the Herakleopolitan rulers, reuniting the Two Lands and inaugurating a period of economic and cultural renaissance known as the Middle Kingdom.
The pharaohs of the Middle Kingdom restored the country's prosperity and stability, thereby stimulating a resurgence of art, literature, and monumental building projects.
Mentuhotep II and his 11th Dynasty successors ruled from Thebes, but the vizier Faiyum.
From Itjtawy, the pharaohs of the 12th Dynasty undertook a far-sighted land reclamation and irrigation scheme to increase agricultural output in the region.
Having secured military and political security and vast agricultural and mineral wealth, the nation's population, arts, and religion flourished.
In contrast to elitist Old Kingdom attitudes towards the gods, the Middle Kingdom experienced an increase in expressions of personal piety and a so-called democratization of the afterlife, in which all people possessed a soul and could be welcomed into the company of the gods after death.
The last great ruler of the Middle Kingdom, Nile floods later in his reign, strained the economy and precipitated the slow decline into the Second Intermediate Period during the later 13th and 14th dynasties.
It was during this decline that the foreign Asiatic settlers began to seize control of the delta region, eventually coming to power in Egypt as the Hyksos.
After their retreat, the Theban kings found themselves trapped between the Hyksos to the north and the Hyksos' Nubian allies, the Kushites, to the south.
Nearly 100 years of tenuous inaction followed, and it was not until 1555 BC that the Theban forces finally gathered enough strength to challenge the Hyksos in a conflict that would last more than 30 years.
The pharaohs Seqenenre Tao II and Kamose were ultimately able to defeat the Nubians, but it was Kamose's successor, Ahmose I, who successfully waged a series of campaigns that permanently eradicated the Hyksos' presence in Egypt.
The pharaohs of the New Kingdom used military force to expand the country's borders and defeat its enemies.
Campaigns waged under Tuthmosis I and his grandson Tuthmosis III extended the influence of the pharaohs into Syria and Nubia and commanded obedience and tribute from these neighbors.
Strengthened diplomatic connections between the major Near East powers cemented loyalties among Egypt's allies and opened access to critical imports such as bronze, wood, and luxuries.
The 18th Dynasty ended when its last three kings&mdash;Tutankhamun, Aye, and Horemheb&mdash;all died without an heir.
The throne then passed to the military man Ramesses I, who founded the 19th Dynasty.
His grandson Ramesses II, also known as Ramesses the Great, ascended the throne around 1279 BC at the age of 18 and built more temples, erected more statues and obelisks, and sired more children than any other pharaoh in history.
Ramesses II led his army against the Hittites in the Battle of Kadesh and, after fighting to a stalemate, eventually concluded the first recorded peace treaty in 1258 BC.
Despite this temporary peace, however, internal struggles and foreign threats would again challenge the prosperity of the region.
Egypt's wealth made it a tempting target for invasion, and the pharaohs of the late New Kingdom were repeatedly challenged by the temple of Amun in Thebes had accumulated vast tracts of land and wealth, and their growing power splintered the country during the Third Intermediate Period.
Following the death of twenty-second dynasty.
The Libyan king twenty-third dynasty, established control over Upper Egypt and ruled concurrently with the latter part of the twenty-second dynasty.
Piye was succeeded first by his brother, Shabaka, and then by his two sons, Shebitku and Taharqa.
The far-reaching prestige of Egypt had declined considerably by the end of the Third Intermediate Period.
Egypt's foreign allies had fallen under the Assyrian sphere of influence, and by 700 BC war between the two states had become inevitable.
The reigns of both Taharqa and his successor, Tanutamun, were filled with constant conflict with the Assyrians, against whom Egypt enjoyed numerous victories.
Ultimately Thebes was occupied, and Memphis was sacked.
From 664 BC, Egypt was ruled by the Assyrian-established Persian domination of Egypt.
Following its annexation by Persia, Roman Empires.
In 332 BC Alexander III of Memphis and went on a pilgrimage to the oracle of Amun at the Oasis of Siwa, where he was declared by the oracle to be the son of Amun.
Although Alexander conciliated the Egyptians by the respect which he showed for their religion, he appointed Greeks to virtually all of the senior posts in the country and founded a new Greek city, Alexandria, to be Egypt's capital.
Using the wealth of Egypt to fuel his conquest of the rest of the Persian Empire, Alexander led his forces to Phoenicia in early in 331 BC, designating Cleomenes of Naucratis as the ruling nomarch of Egypt in his absence.
Alexander never returned to Egypt alive.
Following Alexander's death and the Ptolemy, one of Alexander's closest companions, as satrap of Egypt.
Ptolemy ruled Egypt beginning in 323 BC, nominally in the name of the joint-kings Philip III and Alexander IV.
However, as Alexander the Great's empire disintegrated, Ptolemy established himself as ruler in his own right.
He successfully defended Egypt against an invasion by Perdiccas in 321 BC and consolidated his position in Egypt and the surrounding areas during the Wars of the Diadochi from 322&mdash;301 BC.
In 305 BC, Ptolemy assumed the title of King, founding the Ptolemaic dynasty that would rule Egypt for nearly 300 years.
Later Ptolemies adopted Egyptian traditions of marrying their siblings, portraying themselves on public monuments in Egyptian style and dress, and participating in Egyptian religious life.
Although Muslim conquest, native rebellions and foreign and civil wars of the Ptolemaic Dynasty eventually led to the decline of the kingdom and its annexation by Rome.
Roman Empire --> Egypt became a Arabia, the Roman province of Egypt served as a major producer of grain for the empire.
Another consequence of the triumph of Christianity was the final oppression and demise of Egypt's pagan culture; the ability to read Egyptian hieroglyphs disappeared along with the Egyptian priests and priestesses who officiated at the temples, which were converted to churches or abandoned to the desert.
A second religious schism instigated a prolonged civil war and further alienated Egypt from the Eastern Roman Empire.
The pharaoh was the absolute monarch of the country and, at least in theory, wielded complete control of the land and its resources.
The king was also the supreme military commander, responsible for all military and policy decisions.
The king relied on a bureaucracy of officials to manage his affairs, and in charge of the administration was his second in command, the vizier.
The vizier acted as the king's representative and coordinated land surveys, the treasury, building projects, the legal system, and the archives.
At a local level, the country was divided into administrative regions called granaries and treasuries.
From these central storage facilities, administered by overseers, grain and goods could be distributed to the populace.
Egyptian society was highly stratified, and social status was expressly displayed.
Farmers made up the bulk of the population, but agricultural produce was owned directly by the state, temple, or noble family that owned the land.
Most of the population did not have freedom of movement or a free choice of career.
The economy was centrally organized and strictly controlled.
The head of the legal system in ancient Egypt was officially the pharaoh, who was responsible for proclaiming laws, delivering justice, and maintaining law and order, a concept the ancient Egyptians referred to as Ma'at.
Though no legal codes from ancient Egypt survive, the many extant court documents of the period show that Egyptian law was based on a common-sense view of right and wrong that emphasized reaching agreements and resolving conflicts rather than strictly adhering to a complicated set of statutes.
The ancient Egyptians viewed men and women, including people from all social classes except slaves, as essentially equal under the law, and even the lowliest peasant was entitled to petition the vizier and his court for redress.
Both men and women had the right to own and sell property, make contracts, marry and divorce, receive inheritance, and pursue legal disputes in court.
Married couples could own property jointly and protect themselves from divorce by agreeing to marriage contracts, which stipulated the financial obligations of the husband to his wife and children should the marriage end.
Local Kenbets deferred serious or complicated cases involving murder, major land transactions, and tomb robbery to the "Great Kenbet", over which the vizier or pharaoh presided.
Plaintiffs and defendants were expected to represent themselves in legal matters and were required to swear an oath to an Egyptian deity that they had told the truth.
In cases of tomb robbery or assassination plots, the state took on both the role of prosecutor and judge, and it could torture the accused with beatings to obtain a confession and the names of any co-conspirators.
Whether the charges were trivial or serious, court scribes documented the complaint, testimony, and verdict of the case for future reference.
Punishment for minor crimes involved either imposition of fines, beatings, facial mutilation, or exile, depending on the severity of the offense.
Serious crimes such as murder and tomb robbery were punished by execution, which was carried out by decapitation, drowning, or impaling the criminal on a stake.
Punishment could also be extended to the criminal's family.
A combination of several favorable geographical features contributed to the success of the ancient Egyptian culture, the most important of which was the rich fertile soil resulting from annual inundations of the Nile river.
The ancient Egyptians were thus able to produce an abundance of food, allowing the population to devote more time and resources to cultural, technological, and artistic pursuits.
Land management was crucial in ancient Egypt because taxes were assessed based on the amount of land a person owned.
Farming in Egypt was dependent upon the cycle of the Nile River.
The Egyptians recognized three seasons in their written records: Akhet (flooding), Peret (planting), and Shemu (harvesting).
The flooding season lasted from June to September, depositing on the river's banks a layer of mineral-rich threshed with a flail in order to separate the straw from the grain.
Winnowing would remove the chaff from the grain, and the grain would then be ground into flour, brewed to make beer, or stored for later use.
The ancient Egyptians cultivated wheat, emmer, barley, and several other cereal grains, all of which were used to make the two main food staples of bread and beer.
Flax plants, uprooted before they started flowering, were grown for the fibers of their stems.
These fibers were split along their length and spun into thread, which was used to weave sheets of linen and to make clothing.
Papyrus growing on the banks of the Nile River was used to make paper.
Vegetables and fruits were grown in garden plots, close to habitations and on higher ground, and had to be watered by hand.
Ancient Egypt was also rich in building and decorative stone, copper and lead ores, gold, and semiprecious stones; these natural resources allowed the ancient Egyptians to build monuments, sculpt statues, make tools, and fashion jewelry.
They were so thorough in the search for gold that no new deposits have since been discovered in Egypt.
The ore-bearing rock formations of ancient Egypt were found in distant, inhospitable wadis of the eastern desert and the Sinai and required large, state-controlled expeditions to obtain the gold, copper ores, and decorative stones found there.
The Wadi Hammamat was a notable source of granite, greywacke, and gold.
Whenever possible, prisoners and slaves were forced into mining service, but Egyptian peasants were also conscripted for this unpleasant labor.
High-quality building stones were abundant in Egypt; the ancient Egyptians quarried limestone all along the Nile valley, granite from Aswan, and basalt and sandstone from the wadis of the eastern desert.
Deposits of decorative stones such as porphyry, greywacke, alabaster, and carnelian dotted the eastern desert and were collected even before the First Dynasty.
In the Ptolemaic and Roman Periods, miners worked deposits of emeralds in Wadi Sikait and amethyst in Wadi el-Hudi.
The Coptic, the final phase of the language that was used from the 1st to the 11th century CE.
A dialect of Coptic remained in use for services of the Coptic church and is still in limited use today.
Hieroglyphs were a formal script, used on stone monuments and in tombs, that could be as detailed as individual works of art.
In day-to-day writing, scribes used a cursive form of writing, called hieratic, which was quicker and easier.
While formal hieroglyphs may be read in rows or columns in either direction, hieratic was always written from right to left, usually in horizontal rows.
After Demotic became the dominant spoken language, a new form of writing, of the same name, became the prevalent writing style, and it is this form of writing&mdash;along with formal hieroglyphs&mdash;that accompany the Greek text on the Rosetta Stone.
In the 1st century CE, Coptic Christians living in Egypt discarded the native demotic script and instead wrote their language, using a modified Greek alphabet, in a script also known as Coptic.
Although formal hieroglyphs were used in a ceremonial role until the 4th century CE, towards the end only a small handful of highly educated priests could still read them; as the traditional religious establishments were disbanded, the knowledge of the hieroglyphs' meanings was lost.
Writing first appeared in association with kingship on labels and tags for items found in royal tombs.
The architecture of ancient Egypt includes some of the most famous structures in the world: the temples at Thebes.
All major building projects were organized and funded by the state, and they not only fulfilled religious, military, and commemorative purposes, but also reinforced the power and reputation of the pharaoh to ensure his legacy for all time.
The ancient Egyptians were skilled builders with expert knowledge of basic surveying and construction techniques.
Using simple but effective measuring ropes, plum bobs, and sighting instruments, architects could build large stone structures with accuracy and precision.
Most buildings in ancient Egypt, including the pharaoh's palace, were constructed from perishable materials such as mud bricks and wood and, for this reason, have not survived.
Important structures such as temples and tombs were intended to last forever and were instead constructed of stone.
The first large scale stone building in the world, the mortuary complex of Djoser, was built in the Third Dynasty as a stone imitation of the mud-brick and wooden structures used in daily life.
The architectural elements used in Djoser's mortuary complex, including post and lintel construction of huge stone roof blocks supported by external walls and closely spaced columns, would be copied many times in Egyptian history.
Decorative styles introduced in the Old Kingdom, such as the lotus and papyrus motifs, are a recurring theme in ancient Egyptian architecture.
The earliest tomb architecture in ancient Egypt was the mastaba, a flat-roofed rectangular structure of mudbrick or stone built over an underground burial chamber.
The mastaba was the most popular tomb among the nobility in the Old Kingdom, and the first pyramid, the step pyramid of Djoser, is actually a series of stone mastabas stacked on top of each other.
The step pyramid was itself the inspiration for the first true pyramids.
Pyramids were built by the pharaohs of the Old and Middle Kingdoms, but later rulers abandoned them in favor of less conspicuous rock-cut tombs.
New Kingdom pharaohs built their rock-cut tombs in the Valley of the Kings, and by the Third Intermediate Period, the pharaohs had abandoned building grand tomb architecture altogether.
The earliest preserved ancient Egyptian temples, dating back to the Old Kingdom, consist of single, enclosed halls with roof slabs supported by columns.
The mortuary temples connected to the pyramids at Giza are examples of this early temple.
During the Fifth Dynasty, pharaohs developed the sun temple, the focus of which was a squat, pyramid-shaped pylon, the open courtyard, and the enclosed hypostyle hall to the front of the temple's sanctuary.
Because the common people were not allowed past the entry pylon, the deity residing in the inner sanctuary was distanced from the outside world.
This type of cult temple was standardly used until the Ptolemaic and Roman Periods.
The ancient Egyptians produced art to serve functional purposes rather than to express creative genius.
For over 3500 years, artists adhered to artistic forms that were developed during the Old Kingdom, following a strict set of principles that resisted foreign influence and internal change.
These artistic standards&mdash;simple lines, shapes, and flat areas of color combined with the characteristic flat projection of figures with no indication of spatial depth&mdash;created a sense of order and balance within a composition.
Because of the rigid rules that governed its highly stylized and symbolic appearance, ancient Egyptian art served its political and religious purposes with precision and clarity.
Pharaohs used reliefs carved on stelae, temple walls, and obelisks to record victories in battle, royal decrees, and religious scenes.
These art forms glorified the pharaoh, recorded that ruler's version of historical events, and established the relationship between the Egyptians and their deities.
Common citizens had access to pieces of funerary art, such as shabti statues and books of the dead, which they believed would protect them in the afterlife.
The ancient Egyptians made little distinction between images and text, which were intimately interwoven on tomb and temple walls, coffins, stelae, and even statues.
This mentality is evident even in the earliest examples of Egyptian art, such as the Narmer Palette, where the figures being depicted may also be read as hieroglyphs.
Beliefs in the divine and in the afterlife were ingrained in the ancient Egyptian civilization from its inception.
The pharaoh's right to rule stemmed from his connection to the gods, and he acted as a mediator between the material and spiritual realms.
The Egyptian pantheon was populated by a diverse array of gods who had supernatural, though sometimes limited, powers and could be called upon for help or protection.
However, the gods were not always beneficent, and they had to be appeased with offerings and prayers.
The structure of this pantheon changed continually as new deities were promoted in the hierarchy, but priests made no effort to organize the diverse and sometimes conflicting creation myths and stories into a coherent system.
Officially, the gods were worshiped in cult temples by priests acting on the king's behalf.
At the center of the temple, the cult statue of the god was placed in a shrine where the god could manifest himself.
Temples were not places of public worship or congregation, and only on select feast days and celebrations would a shrine carrying the statue of the god be brought out for public worship.
Normally, the god's domain was sealed off from the outside world and was only accessible to temple officials; common citizens seeking a more direct interaction with the gods could worship private statues and stelae in the home, and amulets offered continuous, personal protection against the forces of chaos.
After the New Kingdom, the pharaoh's connection to the divine, and thus his role as a spiritual intermediary, were de-emphasized as religious customs shifted to direct worship of the gods.
As a result, priests developed a system of oracles to communicate the will of the gods directly to the people.
Oracles became very popular for appealing legal verdicts or for justifying military actions and political decisions.
The ancient Egyptians maintained an elaborate set of burial customs that they believed were necessary to ensure immortality after death.
These customs involved preserving the body by mummification, performing burial ceremonies, and interring, along with the body, goods to be used by the deceased in the afterlife.
Before the Old Kingdom, bodies buried in desert pits were naturally preserved by desiccation.
The arid, desert conditions continued to be a boon throughout the history of ancient Egypt for the burials of the poor, who could not afford the elaborate burial preparations available to the elite.
However, many wealthier Egyptians lost the advantage of natural mummification by the desert when they began to bury their dead in stone tombs.
As a result, the wealthy elite of the Old and Middle Kingdoms began to make use of artificial mummification, which involved removing the internal organs, wrapping the body in linen, coating it with plaster or resin, and sometimes painting or sculpting facial details.
The body was then buried in a rectangular stone sarcophagus or wooden coffin.
Beginning in the Fourth Dynasty, the intestines, lungs, liver, and stomach were preserved separately in canopic jars and symbolically protected by likenesses of the Four sons of Horus.
By the New Kingdom, the ancient Egyptians had perfected the art of mummification; the best technique took 70 days and involved removing the internal organs, removing the brain through the nose, and desiccating the body in a mixture of salts called natron.
The body was then wrapped in linen with protective amulets inserted between layers and placed in a decorated anthropoid coffin.
Mummies of the Late Period were also placed in painted cartonnage mummy cases.
Actual preservation practices declined during the Ptolemaic and Roman eras, while greater emphasis was placed on the outer appearance of the mummy, which was decorated with elaborate rhomboidal patterns formed by the wrapping bandages.
Wealthy members of society were buried with larger quantities of luxury items and furniture, but all burials, regardless of social status, included goods for the deceased, such as food and jewelry.
Beginning in the New Kingdom, books of the dead were included in the grave and contained spells and instructions for protection in the afterlife.
New Kingdom Egyptians were also buried with shabti statues, which they believed would perform manual labor for them in the afterlife.
All Egyptian burials was accompanied by rituals in which the deceased was magically re-animated.
This procedure involved touching the mouth and eyes of the deceased with ceremonial instruments to restore the power of speech, movement, and sight.
After burial, living relatives were expected to occasionally bring food to the tomb and recite prayers on behalf of the deceased.
The ancient Egyptians enjoyed a variety of leisure activities, including games and music.
Senet, a board game where pieces moved according to random chance, was particularly popular from the earliest times; another similar game was mehen, which had a circular gaming board.
Juggling and ball games were popular with children, and wrestling is also documented in a tomb at Beni Hasan.
The wealthy members of ancient Egyptian society enjoyed hunting and boating as well.
The ancient Egyptians engaged in trade with their foreign neighbors to obtain rare, exotic goods not found in Egypt.
In the Predynastic Period, they established trade with Nubia to obtain gold and incense.
They also established trade with Palestine, as evidenced by Palestinian-style oil jugs found in the burials of the First Dynasty pharaohs.
By the Second Dynasty the ancient Egyptians had established trade with Byblos, a critical source of quality timber not found in Egypt.
In the Fifth Dynasty, trade was established with the Land of Punt, which provided gold, aromatic resins, ebony, ivory, and wild animals such as monkeys and baboons.
Egypt relied on trade with Anatolia for essential quantities of tin as well as supplementary supplies of copper, both metals being necessary for the manufacture of bronze.
The ancient Egyptians prized the blue stone lapis lazuli, which had to be imported from far-away Afghanistan.
Egypt's Mediterranean trade partners also included ancient Greece and Crete, which provided, among other goods, supplies of olive oil.
In exchange for its luxury imports and raw materials, Egypt mainly exported grain, gold, linen, and papyrus, in addition to other finished goods including glass and stone objects.
The ancient Egyptian military was responsible for maintaining Egypt's domination in the ancient Near East.
The military protected mining expeditions to the Sinai during the First and Second Intermediate Periods.
The military was responsible for maintaining fortifications along important trade routes, such as those found at the city of Buhen on the way to Nubia.
Forts also were constructed to serve as military bases, such as the fortress at Sile, which was a base of operations for expeditions to the Levant.
In the New Kingdom, a series of pharaohs used the standing Egyptian army to attack and conquer Kush and parts of the Levant.
Typical military equipment included bows and arrows, spears, and round-topped shields made by stretching animal skin over a wooden frame.
In the New Kingdom, the military began using chariots that were introduced by the Hyksos invaders of the Second Intermediate Period.
Weapons and armor continued to improve after the adoption of bronze: shields were now made from solid wood with a bronze buckle, spears were tipped with a bronze point, and a type of scimitar made of bronze, the Khopesh, was adopted from Asian soldiers.
The Egyptian pharaoh was usually depicted in art and literature riding at the head of the army, and there is some evidence that at least a few pharaohs, such as Seqenenre Tao II and his sons, did in fact do so.
Soldiers were recruited from the general population, but during, and especially after, the New Kingdom, mercenaries from Nubia, Kush, and Libya were hired to fight for Egypt while under the command of their own officers.
The achievements of ancient Egypt are well known, and the civilization achieved a very high standard of productivity, organization, and sophistication.
Traditional scientific method can also be traced back to the ancient Egyptians.
The Egyptians created their own alphabet and the decimal system, although it is unclear&mdash;due to the margin of error in carbon-dating tests&mdash;whether the Egyptians were the first to do so.
Egypt based on the glass beads, jars, figures, and ornaments discovered in the tombs.
Ancient Egyptian physicians were renowned in the ancient Near East for their healing skills.
Medical papyri show that they performed thorough examinations and treated patients using a combination of prayers, protective amulets, and remedies derived from natural products.
Wounds were treated by bandaging with raw meat, honey was used to prevent infection, and opium was used to relieve pain.
Garlic and onions were used regularly to promote good health and were thought to relieve asthma symptoms.
Texts such as the frustums.
Use of the golden ratio may have been a consequence of an ancient Egyptian practice of combining the use of knotted ropes with an intuitive sense of proportion and harmony.
Ancient Egypt has inspired a vast number of English-language publications, ranging from scholarly works to generalised accounts (in addition to a large number of speculative, supernatural, or pseudo-scientific explorations).
While they only did one album together as the Analog Brothers, a few bootlegs of their live concert performances, including freestyles with original lyrics, have occasionally surfaced online.
After Pimp to Eat, the Analog Brothers continued performing together in various line ups.
Kool Keith and Marc Live joined with Jacky Jasper to release two albums as KHM.
Marc Live rapped with Ice T's group SMG.
Marc also formed a group with Black Silver called Live Black, but while five of their tracks were released on a demo CD sold at concerts, Live Black's first album has yet to be released.
In addition to all this, the Analog Brothers continue to make frequent appearances on each other's solo albums.
Image = Polio spinal diagram.
In this article, MND refers to a group of diseases which affect the motor neurones.
In the French neurologist, who suggested grouping together a number of disparate conditions all affecting the lateral horn of the spinal cord in 1869.
In France the disease is sometimes known as Maladie de Charcot (Charcot's disease), although it may also be referred to by the direct translation of ALS, Sclerose Laterale Amyotrophique (SLA).
To help prevent confusion, the annual scientific research conference dedicated to the study of MND is called the International ALS/MND Symposium.
Neurological examination presents specific signs associated with upper and lower motor neurone degeneration.
Signs of reflexes and the Babinski sign.
Signs of lower motor neurone damage include weakness and muscle atrophy.
Note that every muscle group in the body requires both upper and lower motor neurones to function.
It is a common misconception that "upper" motor neurones control the arms, whilst "lower" motor neurones control the legs.
The signs described above can occur in any muscle group, including the arms, legs, torso, and bulbar region.
Symptoms usually present between the ages of 50-70, and include progressive weakness, muscle wasting, and muscle fasciculations; spasticity or stiffness in the arms and legs; and overactive tendon reflexes.
Patients may present with symptoms as diverse as a dragging foot, unilateral muscle wasting in the hands, or slurred speech.
The symptoms described above may resemble a number of other rare diseases, known as "MND Mimic Disorders".
These include, but are not limited to multifocal motor neuropathy, Kennedy's disease, hereditary spastic paraplegia, spinal muscular atrophy and monomelic amyotrophy.
A small subset of familial MND cases occur in children, such as "juvenile ALS", Madras syndrome, and individuals who have inherited the ALS2 gene.
However, these are not typically referred to as MND, but by their specific names.
The diagnosis of MND is a clinical one, established by a neurologist on the basis of history and neurological examination.
There is no diagnostic test for MND.
Investigations such as blood tests, electromyography (EMG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and sometimes genetic testing are useful to rule out other disorders that may mimic MND.
However, the diagnosis of MND remains a clinical one.
Having excluded other diseases, a relatively rapid progression of symptoms is a strong diagnostic factor.
A set of diagnostic criteria called the El Escorial criteria have been defined by the World Federation of Neurologists for use in research, particularly as inclusion/exclusion criteria for clinical trials.
Owing to a lack of clinical diagnostic criteria, some neurologists use the El Escorial criteria during the diagnostic process, although strictly speaking this is functionality creep, and some have questioned the appropriateness of the criteria in a clinical setting.
It it possible that Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation can be used to diagnose MND.
Most cases of MND progress quite quickly, with noticeable decline occurring over the course of months.
Although symptoms may present in one region, they will typically spread.
If restricted to one side of the body they are more likely to progress to the same region on the other side of the body before progressing to a new region.
After several years, most patients require help to carry out activities of daily living such as self care, feeding, and transportation.
Around 50% die within 14 months of diagnosis.
The remaining 50% will not necessarily die within the next 14 months as the distribution is significantly skewed.
As a rough estimate, 1 in 5 patients survive for 5 years, and 1 in 10 patients survive 10 years.
Professor Stephen Hawking is a well-known example of a person with MND, and has lived for more than 40 years with the disease.
Mortality normally results when control of the diaphragm is impaired and the ability to breathe is lost.
One exception is PLS, which may last for upwards of 25 years.
Given the typical age of onset, this effectively leaves most PLS patients with a normal life span.
Approximately 10% of cases are "familial MND", defined either by a family history of MND or by testing positive for a known genetic mutation associated with the disease.
Of these, SOD1 mutations account for some 20% of familial MND cases.
There is a role in excitotoxicity and oxidative stress, presumably secondary to mitochondrial dysfunction.
In animal models, death by apoptosis has also been identified.
Around a third of all MND patients experience labile affect, also known as emotional lability, pseudobulbar affect, or pathological laughter and crying.
Patients with pseudobulbar palsy are particularly likely to be affected, as are patients with PLS.
Although traditionally thought only to affect the motor system, sensory abnormalities are not necessarily absent, with some patients finding altered sensation to touch and heat, found in around 10% of patients.
Patients with a predominantly upper motor neurone syndrome, and particularly PLS, often report an enhanced startle reflex to loud noises.
Neuroimaging and neuropathology has demonstrated extra-motor changes in the frontal lobes including the inferior frontal gyrus, superior frontal gyrus, anterior cingulate cortex, and superior temporal gyrus.
The degree of pathology in these areas has been directly related to the degree of cognitive change experienced by the patient, if any.
Patients with MND and dementia have been shown to exhibit marked frontotemporal lobe atrophy as revealed by MRI or SPECT neuroimaging.
The incidence of MND is approximately 1&ndash;5 out of 100,000 people.
Men have a slightly higher incidence rate than women.
Approximately 5,600 cases are diagnosed in the U.S. every year.
By far the greatest risk factor is age, with symptoms typically presenting between the ages of 50-70.
Cases under the age of 50 years are called "young onset MND", whilst incidence rates appear to tail off after the age of 85.
Tentative environmental risk factors identified so far include: exposure to severe electrical shock leading to coma, having served in the first Gulf War, and playing professional football (soccer).
However, these findings have not been firmly identified and more research is needed.
Currently there is no cure for ALS.
The only drug that affects the course of the disease is riluzole.
The drug functions by blocking the effects of the neurotransmitter glutamate, and is thought to extend the lifespan of an ALS patient by only a few months.
The lack of effective medications to slow the progression of ALS does not mean that patients with ALS cannot be medically cared for.
Instead, treatment of patients with ALS focuses on the relief of symptoms associated with the disease.
This involves a variety of health professionals including neurologists, speech-language pathologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, dieticians, respiratory therapists, social workers, palliative care specialists, specialist nurses and psychologists.
Founder of care homes football player Jimmy Johnstone, Polish football player Krzysztof Nowak, and Australian actor and Ginger Meggs cartoonist James Kemsley died from the disease.
All known abjads belong to the Proto-Sinaitic alphabet (dated to about 1500 BC) which is thought to derive from Egyptian hieroglyphs.
The abjad was significantly simpler than the earlier hieroglyphs.
The number of distinct glyphs was reduced tremendously, at the cost of increased ambiguity.
The first abjad to gain widespread usage was the Cyrillic, while Aramaic became the ancestor of many modern abjads and abugidas of Asia.
Aramaic spread across Asia, reaching as far as India and becoming Syriac script was a cursive variation of Aramaic.
It is unclear whether the Arabic abjad was derived from Nabatean or Syriac.
Modern abjads have also been used for isopsephy, a system of assigning numeric values to individual letters.
Before the development of the decimal number system, this was one of the regular systems for writing numbers.
In some languages, the relationship between words and numbers created by this system has led to poetic and mystical usages.
In the 9th century BC, the Greeks adapted the Phoenician script for use in their own language.
The phonetic structure of the Greek language created too many ambiguities when the vowels went unrepresented, so the script was modified.
They did not need letters for the yod were also used.
The abjad form of writing is well-adapted to the grammatical structure of the languages it is used to write, i.e. words in such languages are formed from a root consisting of (usually) three consonants, the vowels being used to indicate inflectional or derived forms.
